	label	comment
0	1	i voted for hillary in 2016 ,  and voted straight democratic today .  im listening to her book and playing video games .  i still feel so badly that somebody who was so qualified lost to someone who isnt .  
1	1	i can breathe .  barely ,  but i can . 
2	1	hey guys .  been a while .  i voted early so i won ' t be at the polls but i ' m rooting for us : )  
3	1	i think it is going to be a long time before election days don ' t give me 2016 flashbacks . 
4	1	whatever else happens at least kris kobach lost .  fucking hate that guy . 
6	1	on tuesday ,  theres a chance for america to redeem itself ,  its been a long and difficult two years ,  but maybe we can find something to give us some hope in these midterms . 
9	1	today ' s the day .  gl to us all . 
10	1	democrats are on track to win back the house including picking up majority of clinton districts not to mention all the wins for minority and female candidates .  .  .  not bad at all . 
12	1	do you think we ' ll ever get some numbers on how much trump ' s campaign blitz is costing taxpayers ? 
14	1	i think we lost most of the races the media really latched onto ,  and we didn ' t take the senate ,  but we did really fucking well when you start looking at the details .  obviously ,  we have the house and we can start to do more than tweet statements at the president .  and state by state we took a ton of power away from the gop . the amount of power the gop had  ( and still has )  at the state level is terrifying and we are starting to fix that in a big way .  
15	1	very mixed feelings about the outcome but very happy that so many women won . especially happy about sharice davids ,  lizzie fletcher ,  finkenauer ,  garcia ,  underwood and so on ! i hope no one can use the: let ' s run a guy cuz women cant win argument anymore . oh and good riddance to scott walker ,  rohrabacker /  putin and kobach !  ! 
16	1	also .  .  .  .  florida .  smh .  
17	1	"the first few times i heard a tv or radio head say ""governor-elect tony evers"" i felt like i had to pinch myself .  now it is starting to sink in and i am downright giddy every time he is interviewed or there is a story about his victory and plans . the asshole gop state assembly leader is saying he and his fellow grad ol '  partiers are going to move to put limits on gubenatorial powers before evers takes office .  what a mother-f\*cker .   all we ever heard from walker was ""elections have consequences"" but when the shoe is on the other foot ,  forget it .   i despise the wisconsin republican party deeply .   one thing for sure though ,  the state constitution guarantees veto power and no way they can take away that from evers and the democrats . "
18	1	nancy pelosi interview on cnn on the top of the hour ,  cuomo prime time . 
20	1	great to see alexandria ocasio-cortez be the youngest women elected to congress !  i ' m looking forward to seeing her do great things and fight for progressive causes ! 
21	1	one year ago today ,  i met hillary ! 
22	1	"my daughter still can barely discuss 2016 without choking up . i remember her telling me ,  the day after ,  how she and her husband broke the news to their boys ,  then 6 and 8 .  one of them ,  crying ,  said ,  ""but he ' s a bad man !  how can a bad man be president ?  ! "" indeed . "
24	1	the ptsd is real . 
25	1	i think it will be the rest of my life .  or at least until the republican party as we know it is ancient history . 
26	1	if the results tonight are the same as 2016 ,  this country deserves anything and everything it gets .  i cannot imagine what more needs to be said and done to get people to vote .  if they don ' t want to vote ,  then fuck them .  let the gop fuck this country over ,  it ' s poetic justice at that point . 
28	1	and we got polis !  ! 
29	1	i ' ve been carrying a 6 pack of new glaruss around with me waiting to celebrate .  don ' t live there but congrats ,  and the beer was good . 
32	1	its pretty universal ,  even more well known people who never were very critical of bernie attack him now . what he said was also absolute nonsense: fl voted for obama twicehe ' s just pandering to white trump voters
35	1	how sad .   / s
36	1	now that he ' s lost the election ,  he can say it all he wants . 
37	1	what a scumbag !  boy byeeeee 
38	1	karma ' s a bitch ,  ain ' t it jason ? 
39	1	love this .  .  .  .  . 
40	1	"""it was his job to be provocative on radio"" sure buddy ,  good locker room talk for your fucking radio listeners .  "
41	1	tbh i ' m surprised this was enough for him to be defeated ,  considering some of the things others did who got elected
42	1	too bad the shitbird needs a grand jury for that .  we don ' t indict people based on the whims of individual church-basement lawyers .  
43	1	sadly ,  voter suppression and race-baiting seemed to work in florida and georgia .  .  . 
44	1	there needs to be a house select committee on voting rights and ballot access .  keep it in the news . 
45	1	yes
46	1	i ' ve said before that the dems tend to be clustered ,  while the conservatives tend to be pretty scattered .   twelve million more votes were cast for dems in the senate races and the gop picked up seats .   let that sink in . 
47	1	again ?  [what the fuck is he doing here this time ? ] ( https: /  / i . imgur . com / mdhbut6 . jpg ) 
48	1	every  '  progressive '  bernie endorsed candidate in a contested area lost yesterday .  .  nuff said . 
49	1	there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum . 
50	1	"a few weeks ago they were a horde of invaders .  ""migrant caravan"" is several steps up and not technically inaccurate .  we don ' t even know whether they ' re all planning to seek asylum ,  or even get to our border to do so; right now they ' re just migrating ,  together ,  as though in a caravan .  i feel like we ' re going to have a hard time getting anyone to call them ""future bff ' s"" or something just because we ' d prefer to frame them as optimally as possible . "
51	1	"not one mention of the coup in honduras-- which is strange given the makeup of the ""caravan"" . "
53	1	yeah pretty interesting that they point to reagan in the 80s and bill in the 90s but completely omit the specific crisis that led to this wave of refugees ,  the coup in honduras .  wonder why they wouldn ' t mention that our president and secretary of state backed that coup in 2009 .  
54	1	theyve chosen to come to america which is their right  ( to seek asylum here )  
55	1	most of them do and will stop there .  
56	1	"that is not what asylum means .  .  .  . you can ' t seek ""economic refuge"" because you have no marketable skills .  .  . "
57	1	thats a legal policy that eu member states have been allowed to institute since 2005 .  it is not ,  however ,  a law in the us . 
58	1	"thanks ,  i ' m aware of the apd .  being from the eu ,  i had to argue ""the first safe country"" with xenophobic right-wingers in europe all the time . what i meant is that in the absence of specific laws ,  a signatory country to international conventions and protocols must adhere to these .  i guess this must apply to the us as well . i hope this makes sense now . "
59	1	i guess hannity must have really good ratings .  $$$$ talks . 
60	1	just like all those people who are against abortion until their daughter has an unwanted pregnancy or are anti-lgbt until their kid comes out . 
61	1	no way . 
62	1	like all those now-former soybean farmers . 
63	1	i often feel bad for the family members when things like this happen ,  unless they seem to be like the person who did these things .   they probably worry that it reflects badly on them and might feel a sense of betrayal as well . 
64	1	furthermore .  .  . >  beierly rants about the collectively treachery of the girls in his high school .  beierly says at one point ,  there are whores in  not only every city ,  not only every town ,  but every village .  he argued that women who were in mixed-race relationships had betrayed their blood . >  i moved on her like a bitch .  but i couldnt get there .  and she was married .  then all of a sudden i see her ,  shes now got the big phony tits and everything .  shes totally changed her look . whatever your political affiliations ,  it seems to me only reasonable for the potus ,  the **first citizen** ,  the **princeps** ,  should be someone who tries to set a good example of how a person should behave . take mike pence .   i ' m a liberal ,  i cannot stand the mans policies .   however ,  after the #magabomber attacks he *immediately* came to the defense of the targeted victims .   he behaved with a degree of grace and dignity that made me respect him .   our retired potus 43 was ,  imo ,  a headache in office .   however ,  he behaved and *behaves* in a manner that inspires respect and emulation . our current potus is a toxic influence who inspires anti-semites ,  misogynists and racists to murderous and bloody action .   he **must** go ,  and swiftly ,  or ,  it seems to me ,  the u . s . a .  will descend into an even bloodier state of civil strife **that it is already in** . the gop has gone too far ,  and enough is enough . 
68	1	because he has the full support of one  of the two major parties . you are right is it trumps words we are talking about ,  but the problem is much deeper at this point .  
69	1	not difficult . 
71	1	damn ,  glad to see you around here !  nice article ! 
72	1	i ' m still nervous .   two years ago ,  we thought things could go well .   i don ' t think i ' ve had this much anxiety since the 2016 election . 
73	1	thank you so very much .  first for your expertise in flying to which so many folks are forever indebted .  second for your understanding of the importance of protecting this great republic and to do what i hope and pray many will do as well .  historically we stand at a defining moment in our flight path we will either land on the hudson and all survive ,   or g-d forbid .  vermonters rock 
74	1	lmao who cares about sully ,  he ' s just some pilot .  maybe a good one ,  but any pilot ever would try to land their plane when it crashed .  and the fact that he was a life long republican just makes it clear that he has spent most of his live voting to fuck over poor people ,  probably not a great guy .  not sure why anyone pays any attention to the man . 
75	1	yep .  the propaganda machine is running strong . 
76	1	just got back from a weekend campaigning for his opponent ,  andy kim .  would be a huge victory in nj . 
77	1	that ' s completely intentional .   destroy the institutions of american democracy from many angles ,  including by not having anyone to actually ensure it . 
78	1	its called obstructionism ! 
79	1	they go low ,  kick em in the head
80	1	>even though jerusalem is home to the three abrahamic religions ,  christianity ,  judaism and islam ,  christian fundamentalists seem determined to convert the entire region to christianity . >this view was supported by mark harris ,  a republican candidate for the house of representatives . 
81	1	"it ' s coming specifically from the contingent of people at charlottesville who trump labelled as ""very fine people"" . "
82	1	unfortunately ,  it ' s coming from the racist faction in this country  whose flames have been fanned by the greasy human shitbag in the wh . 
83	1	this makes no sense . 
86	1	honestly ,  do you think your post helps your cause ?  do you think this is or can be a major gotv issue ?  the other side has their caravan of fear motivating them ,  don ' t you think we need a more centralized coherent message ? 
87	1	i was lucky that my college gave us excused absences if we had to miss class to vote and that my high school was closed on election day .    ( i didn ' t turn 18 until after i graduate ,  but that ' s still good for the kids who turned 18 before the elections .  )   
88	1	everyone of those replies under her tweets was from a name######## account .  its so fucking obvious that theyre trolls .  and still posting fd up pics of pedophilia
89	1	those are some amazing women .   i ' ve read about several of them during this cycle and should learn more about the others . 
90	1	of course they do . 
91	1	>why can ' t the rest of those networks lick his balls like we donew fox news slogan
92	1	joseph goebbels would be proud of fox news . 
93	1	that is the definition of state tv . 
95	1	actually ,  it ' s the definition of regime propaganda tv . 
97	1	a good way to celebrate journalists would be to elect people who don ' t consider them the enemy next week . 
98	1	>there is something else that mr .  trump does to facilitate violence against those he dislikes: he dehumanizes them .  these aren ' t people ,  he once said about undocumented immigrants suspected of gang ties .  these are animals . >research by dr .  cikara and others showsthatwhen one group feels threatened ,  it makes it much easier to think about people in another group as less than human and to have little empathy for them  two psychological conditions that are conducive to violence . >as dr .  fiskehas written ,  both science and history suggest that people will nurture and act on their prejudices in the worst ways when these people are put under stress ,  pressured by peers ,  or receive approval from authority figures to do so . >**so when someone like president trump dehumanizes his adversaries ,  he could be putting them beyond the reach of empathy ,  stripping them of moral protection and making it easier to harm them . **>if you still have any doubt about the power of political speech to foment physical violence ,  consider the classic experiment by the yale psychologist stanley milgram ,  who inthe early 1960sstudied thewillingness of a group of men to obey an authority figure . >subjects were told to administer electrical shocks to another participant ,  without knowing that the shocks were fake .  sixty-five percent of the subjects did what they were told and delivered the maximum shock ,  which if real could have been fatal .  the implication is that we can easily be influenced by authority to do terrible harm to others  just by receiving an order . >**now imagine what would happen if president trump actually issued a call to arms to his supporters .  scared ?  you should be . **
99	1	that ' s one of the really scary ways in which trump really acts like hitler . if you ever wondered how in god ' s name people could murder 6 million fellow human beings: because the nazis spent years dehumanizing jewish people .  they werent thought of as people anymore but as vermin . if you dont understand the danger of foxnews stating the immigrants carry smallpox and other diseases: read up on what hitler said about the diseases jews carried .  .  . 
100	1	i have a feeling that 50 or 100 years from now ,  the trump era is going to be talked about in history classes as one of the worst times in the history of this country . 
102	1	that ' s going to make for an awkward thanksgiving . 
103	1	im really heartened by seeing a lot of family members denounce their candidate relations publicly this election cycle .  i think its awesome evidence that lots of people are more able to have empathy with all kinds of people ,  not just their blood kin .  overall it bods well for chipping away at racism and xenophobia .  
104	1	i ' ve always said that when your family can ' t stand by you ,  that shows that you ' re on the wrong side of things . 
105	1	brave children 
106	1	its especially apparent in that video of him in a yamaca touching the western wall .  you can just see the *hatred* for his own daughter ,  stepson and grandchildren in his eyes .  
108	1	why feel the need to lie
109	1	yeah there ' s no need to lie .  trump is an anti-semite .  definitely no need to lie . 
110	1	thats my state .  its a vicious cycle .  im in the highest ranked college in west virginia and a local all my life .  im about to graduate and there is nothing here for me with my education and degree .  myself along with my classmates and people i graduated with move out so we actually have opportunities .  its incredibly unfortunate that its this way .  if west virginia has some staying power it would grow and prosper .  i might also add that im proud of my home state for not developing like the rest of the country .  economically its a disaster and dont think because im going to an expensive college that i grew up in the minority in west virginia .  my family was lucky to be considered upper lower class ,  my education is payed for with loans and scholarships .  the reason im proud is because this state is so wild !  its full of forests and wildlife .  no matter where you go you are best weld in between large trees and mountains full of beauty .  
111	1	>  west virginia ranked poorest state in countryvoted 67 . 9% for potus 45 . >  experience keeps a dear school ,  but fools will learn in no other .  benjamin franklin
112	1	the state that gave trump his largest margin of victory ,  nonetheless . 
113	1	those who live by the sword ,  die by the sword . 
114	1	i have never heard rachel ' s crew laugh that loud .  :d
115	1	i cannot wait for john oliver ' s take on this story ! 
116	1	the whole thing was bizaare . 
117	1	"""attack"" ?  we ' re pissing ourselves laughing here . i mean ,  here ' s someone genuinely so thick he *almost* deliberately got himself stomped flat by the fbi in order to .  .  . own the libs ? there ' s just nothing left to attack ,  he ' s taken care of every possible degree of humiliation himself .  only sheer joy left for us .  bless . "
118	1	attempting to accuse someone of sexual assault is a prank ?  hmm .  .  . 
119	1	its just a prank !  !  jesus guyys
120	1	what ' s really sad is that you screenshotted this very comment so you can go get high fives back at t_d .   
123	1	sure dont . 
125	1	she probably means knees . 
127	1	palin is perhaps the saddest figure in the crypto-nazi republican party .   no longer the darling of the nazis ,  she has been utterly eclipsed by trump ,  a failed human being who allows his kamerads to feel superior to their leader ,  both morally and intellectually .   the bar has been set so low that even a meth-head can feel smart compared to 45 .   palin ' s a failed crypto-nazi .   tragic . 
128	1	"is she picturing a dodge minivan when she hears ""caravan"" ? "
130	1	its pure anti-semitism ,  now we see how deeply its embedded in the gop .  . 
131	1	since theyre walking .  .  .  and theres less than half left than what had started out .  .  .  . and its going to cost about $500 million .  .  . then we got genius ann coulter who thinks we should invade mexico over legal asylum seekers . republicans are retarded .  thats not meant as a slur ,  i have no other word to describe such delayed progress and attempts to hold back accomplishment . 
132	1	i often wonder how 08 might have played out had he picked .  .  . you know .  .  . not a half-witted nut job .  
133	1	agreed .  the moment she was made a mainstream political figure was the moment the tea partiers and like minded extremists got empowered and that ' s what we ' re seeing today . 
134	1	people think the republican party was hijacked by racists and anti-semites .  the truth is most of the republican voters have always been these things ,  they finally have representatives that truly represent who they are .  moderates and independent voters need to step up and vote against the hate group .  
135	1	agreed completely .  trump isnt the real problem: he is the logical result of years of racism and anti-semitism by mainstream republicans . 
136	1	exactly ,  they used their code words on tv and in speeches but i ,  as a white man ,  was behind the curtain the whole time .  i was at the bar with the replubican voters ,  in the barber shop ,  at the park .  i heard everything ,  i knew who they really were .  the republican politicians that weren ' t racist and anti-semitic were willing to use the code words to win .  they had no idea the internet would empower the voters to shake loose of the pretenders and get true racists into office .  donald trump represents the republican voter that i have known my whole life .  he is truly what they have always been to me .  they finally have the representatives they ' ve always wanted .  this is who the republican voter has always been .  
137	1	this should be the end for him . 
138	1	"being civil is recognizing the humanity of others .  we are fighting for civil rights while republicans are literally dismantling the civil right act .   ( i also agree with hillary ,  but the above is just another was of looking at it .  ) ""in recognizing the humanity of our fellow beings ,  we pay ourselves the highest tribute . "" - thurgood marshall "
139	1	trump has made me forget how a leader is supposed to sound .  congrats us ,  you played yourself . 
140	1	i finally actually agree with her .  she is exactly right .  democrats need to stop being civil and point out that one side is virtually a hate group at this point .  it appears she has learned her lesson from the election after all .  
141	1	im so glad the lil lady has learned her lessons and is acting just the way you want her to now !  
142	1	she made a joke ,  which not one poc finds offensive but racists are oh so upset
143	1	"dykt the context of a joke matters ,  not only where and when it is said but also who is saying it and who they say it to and their background history and what they have done in their lives and what the people they ' re joking about previously feel about them and what the joke is actually about and who the actual target of the joke is and thus telling a joke is actually an exercise in social skillswhat i ' m saying is ,  if you can ' t tell the difference between an ""all black people look alike"" joke where the target of the joke is the person making the mistake ,  not black people themselves ,  then you ' re being purposefully obtuse or you lack social skills"
144	1	hillary clinton is like black folks watching a scary movie .  
145	1	someday i hope she flat out says that she called all this . 
149	1	"""crippling effects"" ?  since you ' re so full of imagination why don ' t you share what you imagine the crippling effects clinton would have had ?  or are you one of those deplorables who goes around echoing vague talking points you ' ve been fed ?  since you ' re posting on this sub ,  show the receipts otherwise you ' re kinda pathetic . "
150	1	he unifies the hateful ,  the fearful ,  the racist . 
151	1	what a steaming pile of horseshit . 
152	1	til; muslims are body snatchers .  
153	1	fox has gone from faux news to fascist news . 
154	1	"i ' m listening to thom hartmann as i am reading this .   a caller into the show said he tried to record a hannity show on his dvr and got message that ""this receiver is not authorized to record this show"" .   this means you cannot document hannity ' s outrageous statements .   hartmann also mentioned that fox is free to most users ,  but msnbc is considered a premium channel which costs more .   he discussed structural reasons that make fox  more accessible to people .   yes ,  i would boycott their advertisers . "
157	1	yes !  !  !  absolutely !  !  ! 
158	1	yea i agree
159	1	it should
160	1	the fuck ?  youre welcome to leave the country
162	1	i voted for her without reservations ,  defended her throughout and in the aftermath .   i honestly just don ' t want to see her go through this again .   i ' ve got a bernie bro acquaintance who ,  to this day ,  will still waste more breath talking shit about hillary -- and defending trump / trump supporters .   there are people who will refuse to budge .   it ' s going to be a crowded field of candidates as it is .   i love her but i hope she doesn ' t go through this again . 
163	1	the only one that can call trump putins puppet to his face .  shes the only one that can take him on 
164	1	imo ,  hillary can do whatever the fuck she wants .  no one in the media is telling bernie ,  biden ,  romney and / or kerry not to run ,  but everyone is telling hillary to take a seat and keep quiet .  she got the 2nd most votes in the history of our country ,  and the presidency was stolen from her ,  so if she wants to take another shot ,  good for her .  let the voters decide if they want to nominate her again ,  and not a bunch of pundits on tv .  
165	1	i wish like hell she ' d become president in 2016 .  i don ' t see that she ' d be a viable candidate in 2020 .  love ya hill ,  but it ' s time for new blood . 
166	1	i believe she is the best person for the job .  
168	1	she can do what ever the hell she wants .   she has earned it .   
169	1	with merkel exiting the stage ,  clinton in 2020 would be .  .  .  too good to be true . 
170	1	i can ' t even allow myself to get my hopes up .  she is truly the only fully qualified person for the job . why would she put herself through that again . 
171	1	eh ,  i think it ' s a smart move .  if events unfold such that she is the best bet to get a democrat in office in 2020 she should run .  i don ' t think that scenario is that likely ,  but she may as well leave the door slightly ajar . 
172	1	run hillary run ! 
173	1	love her ,  but i really hope not .  they need to find a candidate that energizes the left .  
174	1	still with her !  always with her .  it ' s time for a woman to lead .  
177	1	i never bought into the anti-hillary propaganda that portrayed her like the devil incarnate .  she was robbed of the presidency ,  but outright cheating ,  but her time has come and gone .  
179	1	no ,  thanks .  
180	1	i love hillary ,  but i think she needs to go away .  too divisive ,  unfortunately .   ( not because she is actually divisive herself ,  but between bernie fanatics ,  republicans ,  and russian trolls ,  plus a huge fraction of the american electorate is *really* stupid .  ) i actually feel the same about warrentheyve been working to smear her for years . and bernie ,  though im not much of a fan of his . i would vote for any of them in a general election ,  but id rather see harris or duckworth or someone else who the republican party hasnt yet demonized . and i think there should be plenty of good candidates ,  but now is not the time to worry about it .  we need to push as hard as we can with the midterms and start worrying about 2020 next year . 
181	1	maybe someone should remind her she lost to an umpa-loompa . 
182	1	i hope she does ,  because the prize is worth it .  not just for herself ,  but for the nation and for history .  the us is at a fragile turning point ,  probably the most momentous for it since the civil war ,  and we need a dem to win in 2020 for our future .  i fully believe clinton is the best candidate to win . 
183	1	there is no other human being on the planet who can do the job as well as she can .   she ' s got heart ,  grit ,  and brains .   if she is willing to sacrifice her golden years for us we will be lucky to have her . 
184	1	thank you ,  and exactly .  people don ' t realise there is a lot of historical precedence for this .  -andrew jackson won the 1824 popular vote but lost the election ,  then came back and won four years later in 1828 . -grover cleveland won the 1888 popular vote but lost the election ,  then came back and won four years later in 1892 . -richard nixon barely lost the presidential election of 1960 ,  then decided to run for president again and won in 1968 . so not only is there precedence for a candidate who won the popular vote running again and winning ,  but there ' s also precedence for someone who already ran for president and lost running again and winning . and in fact ,  *every* person who won the popular vote for president and lost the election who then ran again *all* won the next time .  of presidential candidates who won the popular vote but weren ' t elected president ,  there are only those who won on their next run  ( jackson ,  cleveland )  and those who just didn ' t run again  ( samuel tilden ,  al gore )  who nevertheless would ' ve had strong cases if they ' d wanted to run again . 
185	1	i ' d like to see the democratic party rally behind politicians who don ' t accept pac money and corporate income .  that ' s the simple reason why i want her to not run again .  that said ,  if she runs again and is again the best candidate ,  then i will vote for her again .  i get the frustration ,  since progressives want the current politicians to shift further left ,  but i agree that no one should tell her not to run .  
186	1	i ' m just tired of clinton derangement syndrome ,  i ' d love like hell for her to be president but i ' m not sure i could handle that media environment *again* . 
187	1	i disagree .  i think she ' s the most viable candidate .  i know that ' s not the popular opinion but if you think it through it is .  she has already gone through an election against trump and had *everything* thrown at her possible .  they have nothing left to throw at her but rehash .  and we know she ' s strong enough to take it and strong enough to weather republicans hating her and russia doing everything it can to take her down including trying to craft a narrative that everyone hates her ,  despite the fact she won more votes than donald trump and the second-most votes in u . s .  history . what people aren ' t realising is that russia and the gop hate machine won ' t go away if hillary doesn ' t run again .  they are priming for anyone who wins the dem nomination .  biden ,  harris ,  duckworth ,  booker ,  sanders ,  whomever ,  once they ' re the dem nominee they will be just as hated and just as maligned online by an army of bots making it seem real and cool to hate them and the gop will make them the devil incarnate like they did hillary . this gop hate machine didn ' t even start with clinton .  it started with obama ,  they made him the devil incarnate for the conservative base .  but obama was lucky that russia didn ' t deploy all their evil plans to give the presidency to his opponent and now we are dealing with not only a deranged gop but a hostile foreign interference to tilt our elections . personally i feel clinton is the one most ready to go up against this army and win for 2020 . 
188	1	agreed ,  it seems pretty obvious she ' s joking !  she ' s saying she doesn ' t want to run again ,  but wishes and / or feels she *should* be president right now .  and she ' s not wrong ! 
189	1	found the trump supporter . 
190	1	"i ' m the left and she energizes me . all we need is for the misogynists on the left to sit down ,  shut up ,  and stop calling everyone energized by her ""vagina voters"" and other slurs . and this time we will make them shut up .   no hiding in secret facebook groups this time .   loud ,  proud ,  public .   "
191	1	why ? the left refuses to even give warren ,  let alone harris a chance .  . 
193	1	gillibrand would probably pose similar issues as hillary with her being unable to really motivate the liberal wing of the party because of her back and forth between conservative and liberal during the early part of her career ,  harris would probably be the better choice in my opinion .  but i ' m no expert here so i could be wrong . 
195	1	third time ' s the charm ,  baby . 
196	1	> i actually feel the same about warrentheyve been working to smear her for years . expect to see this with any female politician who is getting presidential candidate buzz .  i think were past those point of no return with hillary  ( sadly )  ,  but its important to fight the smear tactics rather than give into them .  
197	1	it ' s not really losing when your opponent stole the election .  
198	1	did she ?   we know she won millions more votes ,  but we don ' t know if the results in places like michigan ,  georgia ,  pennsylvania ,  and wisconsin are legitimate .   
200	1	i really don ' t think she would win if she ran again .  if anything her running would energize the right all over again when that ' s the opposite of what you guys need ,  and she ' d further divide the left .  the right is too well versed on how to attack her and how to hit hard ,  it ' d be better to have a candidate whose fairly unknown and can ' t be smeared through the mud as much and turn off moderates or people who are wishy-washy about the whole thing .  historical precedence is not something to gamble four more years of trump against .  
0	1	i really don ' t think she would win if she ran again .  if anything her running would energize the right all over again when that ' s the opposite of what you guys need ,  and she ' d further divide the left .  the right is too well versed on how to attack her and how to hit hard ,  it ' d be better to have a candidate whose fairly unknown and can ' t be smeared through the mud as much and turn off moderates or people who are wishy-washy about the whole thing .  historical precedence is not something to gamble four more years of trump against .  
1	1	i dont want to see that ,  and i wish dems would quit saying itdems are at a huge disadvantage financially against republicans .  if they dont take corporate money ,  they dont have a shot . we need laws to change .  best chance of that happening is getting a dem in office .  . 
2	1	this is exactly what pains me .   the far right will hate any democratic candidate but there is an inordinate amount of lingering hate for hillary on the left .   i ' ll support whoever our candidate is ,  obviously ,  and would gladly vote for hillary again .   
3	1	"this ,  exactly .  clearly there is an enormous segment of people who think she ' s just the devil in a pantsuit .  plus all the butthurt bernie bros  ( note: i mean just the crazies ,  not slandering everyone who supported him )  who *still* claim that bernie would have won the primaries if the dnc hadn ' t interfered . honestly ,  for her to even say this right now is in really bad form .  we need to begin to turn the tide on this government in the midterms ,  and anything that *anyone* on the left does to rile up the right is just fucking bad .  whether we get the ""blue tide"" next week or not ,  we will still need to focus as much attention on congress in 2020 as on the white house ,  so we need a candidate in 2020 that the entire left can get behind .  or at least as many of us as can ever be reasonable . "
4	1	give me a break .  she literally lost to donald fucking trump .  i wish with all my heart i she would have won ,  but its not going to happen .  a large enough segment of the country hates her with every fiber of their being .  
6	1	because she has too much baggage and she ' d have the right frothing at the mouth to make sure that she doesn ' t win .  they would just *love* her to run so they can pull out their playbook again .  i also think there are things that they can hit her on that won ' t play well with people who would otherwise be sure votes - after metoo you can be sure that bill ' s history would be dragged up again ,  and she ' d be smeared for having supported him .  i ' d rather see a candidate that the right doesn ' t have reams of data on .  
9	1	no it isn ' t .  she had her chance .  
10	1	i agree ,  i guess i just fear that we ' re past the point of no return for warren too .  
12	1	she won the popular vote by millions of votes and the only problem was complacency on the far left who thought she was a shoe in and they could protest vote rather than real vote . that won ' t happen next time . 
14	1	beto just out raised cruz .  all small dollar donations .  i don ' t want politicians that are bought by corporations . i get your worry ,  but money has to be stripped out of politics .  it has to start somewhere ,  and our party is the one capable of making that change .  
15	1	how about you give me a break .  she literally won the popular vote by millions and since there ' s been many questions raised about russia ' s role in the electoral college outcome . if she runs again ,  it will happen .  a large enough segment of the country hates any powerful dem with every fibre of their being .  anyone winning that nomination for 2020 on the dem side will get the hate treatment and the  ' it ' s cool to hate them '  bot army against them on the internet . 
16	1	"baggage is what enemies make up out of thin air and put on anyone .   every candidate ""has to much baggage"" .   every ,  single ,  one .   this is a nonsense objection . "
17	1	and won the popular vote every single time .   both presidential primaries and the presidential general .   and her popular vote lead gets bigger the second time every time  ( including her senate race  .  .  she won even bigger there the second time )  . you may not like her ,  but there are literally more of us who do .   its a democracy baby ! 
18	1	whenever the hell did she say it was her turn ? that ' s how the far left demonized her ,  youre gonna pretend its something she actually said ,  youre a sexist and a liar . and bernie can go f*ck himself
20	1	note that she said this after her campaign .  i think you hold a traditionalist view of what a president should be .  i personally think we need to view the role of the president differently but i can understand where youre coming from .  
21	1	no ,  a huge part of the problem was also that a large number of people on the left *don ' t like her* .  i know that this isn ' t the most popular place to say that ,  but it ' s the truth and i ' m not going to deny it just because i like her .  combine that with the fact that she invigorates the right and i don ' t know why anyone who wants to win in 2020 would want her as a candidate .  
22	1	i worked for hillary in 2016 .  the problem wasn ' t just the far left ,  it was a lack of energy for her supporters as well .  i never had as hard of a time getting volunteers as i did for hillary ,  even her biggest supporters were so burnt out by the end of the elections that i couldn ' t squeeze more than one knocking shift out of them .   don ' t get me wrong ,  maybe she could ' ve won if the far left came in from the cold ,  but the fact is that many other candidates would ' ve won handily because of how they motivated their base .  this last election shouldn ' t have been an issue ,  democrats should ' ve won the presidency easily .  
24	1	change it to  ' history '  ,  then .  the point is ,  she has a lot going on that the right can pull out to attack her on that still gets their base and more going ,  and i think that ' s a problem .  
25	1	agreed on both sides .  we had bush ,  clinton ,  bush ,  clinton  ( running and lost )  ,  obama  ( obviously beat clinton )  ,  then we had both clinton and bush running  ( both lost )  and ended up with trump .  america isn ' t huge on long term dynasties but the bush and clinton family sure did give it a run .  for 20 years we saw 1 of 2 names lead the country and then they still ran and personally i am glad both lost .  i ' d be happy if neither a bush or a clinton won another presidency .  
26	1	"i ' m not advocating for her running again but your argument is the same regurgitated nonsense as always .  she lost pa despite campaigning there so heavily she may as well have been living there: pa was where the polls all had her comfortably leading throughout ,  she has roots there ,  the democratic convention was there ,  the had multiple big rallies including the final one with bruce springsteen ,  both obama ,  bill clinton ,  etc .  ditto florida for that matter .      in wi other democrats eg russ feingold who campaigned locally in wi lost by much more than she did .  with michigan ,  the state dems specifically asked her campaign to stay away ,  and wanted to run the game themselves despite mook trying to send money and resources .  of course mi was lost .    in all three states ,  there was enormous amounts of votes lost due to machines not ""working"" ,  voters removed from rolls ,  incredibly long lines  ( no early voting in pa )  .  she didn ' t not play the game - it was rigged against her .  "
28	1	"her staffers never said that her slogan was ""it ' s her turn . ""  unless you have a link proving otherwise ? "
29	1	glad to see her still involved .   i also have appreciated her reminders for voter registration deadlines ,  etc . 
32	1	sorry !  !  can ' t be too careful on reddit ,  unfortunately - hope you understand ! 
35	1	i actually just read that the murderer was anti-trump .  he called him a tool of the jew .  which i wasnt expecting ,  because ,  lets face it ,  thats the first place your mind goes to when a minority community is targeted by a psychotic ,  pathetic loser with a  gun . this guy was just a full-on ,  hate-filled antisemite . 
36	1	well this guy was avowedly anti-trump .  however ,  anyone can see that trump and other republicans are inciting this hate through their rhetoric ,  actions ,  and inactions .  the fact that the inciting reason for this shooting was an immediate fear of invasion from the refugee caravan lays the blame squarely at trumps doorstep .  yet within hours trump will be fear mongering about an invasion again if he hasnt already .  
37	1	manson was much more intelligent than trump .  that ' s one difference .  
38	1	he murdered because he actually believed the caravan heading for the us is funded by soros and that theyre about to invade the us . the whole hype about this caravan ,  the suggestion there are middle eastern terrorists in it ,  is spread by trump . those conspiracy theories which leads unstable people to murder are directly spread by trump /  foxnews . so it doesnt really matter whether or not this person is anti trump ,  the climate of hate and conspiracies is created by trump / fox . 
39	1	against the agenda that he thinks trump has  ( being a tool of the jews )  .  .  .  .  maybe but not anti-trumps actual agenda  ( white nationalism )  
40	1	where did you read that ? 
41	1	why the stickers on the van then ? 
42	1	what is your source on that ? 
43	1	ill give you that for sure 
44	1	billionaire trump isnt as smart as nazi charles manson .  your code is malfunctioning . 
45	1	wrong maniac .  the stickers-on-the-van guy was the mail bomber . 
46	1	billionaire trump .   ill believe it when i see some actual proof rather than the dreck that flows in chunks from his mouth . 
47	1	ah ,  i meant where did he disavow trump .  i 100% believe he was full of multiple kinds of hate .  which makes it hard to believe that he disliked trump . 
48	1	hm ,  i can ' t get back to an original source ,  but i appreciate you sharing what you saw . 
49	1	thats not denouncing trump .  
50	1	if you poke around a bit you can probably find the fb screenshots .  conservatives have been sharing them like wildfire thinking it completely vindicates the right .  
201	-1	now this is spicy .  also ,  super speedy sticky ! 
202	-1	**we will fight it and we will win . **-rick scott last night ,  on the democrat attempts to cheat the election . 
203	-1	"*we will never surrender americas sovereignty to an unelected ,  unaccountable global bureaucracy . ""*   - president trump"
204	-1	honestly ,  this is the first meme i ' m having trouble even laughing at .   this whole thing is infuriating ,  saddening ,  that thing where you feel every emotion at once and aren ' t sure what to do about it .   this is not america if we just allow it to happen . 
205	-1	whew mods that was fast . 
208	-1	she looks more like ursula to me . 
209	-1	noticing that democrats are trying to steal elections is a threat to our democracy ! 
210	-1	#don ' t forget the bullshit happening in arizona as well !   
211	-1	tried ?  sounds like they are getting away with it in fl and maybe even az right now . 
212	-1	we should have been prepared for this .   after all the shit the dems pulled ,  all the way up to trump ' s inauguration ?   they have no doubt been preparing to steal each and every election they could ,  all across the country . 
213	-1	florida pede here .  i voted for desantis and scott .  i ' m closely watching this recount .  i know i won ' t stand for the dems stealing the election .  i just wonder other floridians will stand with me to drive out this evil corruption in our state .  if so ,  then who would ' ve thought that civil war 2 would start in florida ? 
214	-1	since djt bcecame president the left has not been able to contain itself ! every dirty ,  crafty ,  underhanded scheme is being exposed because they dont like losing !  !  !  !  ! 
215	-1	"this piece of shit has already been caught tampering with ballots in the past ,  she should have been removed long ago !   unchecked corruption is the problem .   it ' s not enough to ""investigate"" people ,  we need to fucking remove them .  "
216	-1	literal troll .  
217	-1	you ' re a crooked dirty jockey and you drive a crooked hoss ,  mrs .  grinch , 
218	-1	i like how you could use her hair as is . 
219	-1	let ' s see if it ' s  ' tried ,  '  or  ' succeeded .  '  the gop was inexcusably caught flatfooted .  snipes is a pro at stealing elections; she may yet succeed .  
220	-1	this picture makes my balls want to crawl up my anus for some reason .  .  . 
221	-1	hoping to see some handcuffs come out this time
222	-1	she is one dumb ,  ugly motherfucker .  this is actually a major improvement . 
223	-1	she said she only had 600k votes in broward county .   now they have another 300k they need to count ?   the clinton mafia brought them in with trucks .   shut it down ! 
224	-1	one thing that i thought this morning while on the crapper:  what if trump knew he had to flush their corruption this cycle ?  ?     the dems always use corruption in key locations ,  broward ,  philly ,  durham ,  to win key states .    this may end up being the best example ever of 4d chess .    the dems may have completely exposed their rue .    
227	-1	#lock 
228	-1	well it seems to be working wish our republican reps would come together and talk about this a little more .  
230	-1	##meesa salti leebrall
231	-1	not just florida but arizona too
232	-1	dont worry pedes .  awan bros just found two more boxes of ballots in pakistan .  they did not check contents because they did not want to tamper with them .  everything is fine .  
233	-1	i hear that snipes found a few thousand votes for al gore .  .  .  . 
234	-1	that picture is raysis !  ! 
235	-1	what do you mean tried ? she ' s already stolen the ag race and republicans won ' t do anything about it
236	-1	by all accounts ,  trying and succeeding .  now isn ' t the time for mockery .  it ' s the time for action . 
237	-1	this grinch needs to see the inside of a prison cell .  federal offenses need to be dealt with by the new acting ag .  
241	-1	pass the milk please . 
242	-1	yeah great haha i guess .   but seriously ,  what ' s being done about it ?   will these lawsuits even matter ?  will trump step in ? 
243	-1	shits too serious . 
244	-1	voter card with picture and number that can only be used once with a record of your vote 
246	-1	she in jail yet ? 
247	-1	i  firmly believe that anyone found guilty of undermining our democracy the way she has should be publicly hanged .  if that doesn ' t make you an enemy of the united states of america ,  i don ' t know what does . 
248	-1	we did what we were supposed to do .   if republicans want to continue to get walked over by lawlessness then they made their bed and have to lay in it . 
249	-1	well so far shes doing it ,  don ' t sound like there ' s anything happening
250	-1	this shit going on in fl and az is making so mad .   i ' m feeling disgusted .  i usually read t_d to cheer myself up but its not working . 
252	-1	i need a glass of milk
254	-1	and she is getting caught red handed ! 
256	-1	*we will never back down .   we will fight for you the american people .  and we will win ,  win ,  win . *
258	-1	the feeling of helplessness in the face of injustice .  and they wonder why we love and protect the 2nd
260	-1	finally .  getting worried there  .  . 
261	-1	we have the best mods ,  don ' t we folks ? 
262	-1	pretty much every politician in broward county is hitlery . 
263	-1	"the two lost tx u . s .  house seats were lost because those suburban districts are prime ""kill zones"" when a retarded charismatic snake oil salesman like o ' rourke drives out the turnout .  if it were actual widespread fraud they would have bagged 5 or 6 house seats . "
264	-1	same ! 
265	-1	cnnpc probably
266	-1	az is doomed .  we actually have hope for fl since the potus tweeted about fl and not the other states . 
267	-1	folks in arizona have a life-altering choice to make if the dems succeed in stealing the election .  
268	-1	arizona is already lost . 
269	-1	i wouldn ' t count florida out just yet .  rick scott is still the governor and will exhaust every resource available to him to fight this thing  ( he ' s also rich and can afford some very good lawyers )  .  that doesn ' t mean we ' ll win ,  but we certainly won ' t go down without a fight .  arizona ,  however ,  looks to be doomed .  it ' s very sad . 
271	-1	fl pede here too ,  all 4 in our family voted de santis /  scott .  i will stand with you ! 
272	-1	please make this a main post ! 
273	-1	catapult this fat bitch into the atlantic
275	-1	i know me too .  .  . we kept being told to .  . wait .  .  .  .  . but enough is enough ! 
276	-1	sorry .   the mangy dog who smells bad character is played by debbie wasserman-shultz . 
277	-1	are you q idiots done now ? 
278	-1	he need some milk !  wheres our spicy bot ? 
279	-1	real cows milk
280	-1	i need this bitch in prison 
281	-1	exactly ,  and now they are trying this crap in every district they can .  this is an infiltration that is getting more and more efficient .  by 2020 the fraud election machine will get better if things stay this way .  
283	-1	disagree- the illegals aren ' t evenly distributed . 
284	-1	serious question .  are the veritas videos not proof of cheating ? 
285	-1	> this is what happens when there is no consequences to what they do . but it ' s even worse than this .  .  .  she was left in her position on purpose .   she is there to help democrats steal elections ,  so the real question for me is who is the person that has allowed her to stay in her position ?   it ' s just too convenient that she ' s always there in every election to help the democrats cheat .  
286	-1	what if it was soy milk ?  
287	-1	always an interesting post from you sir . 
288	-1	nope .  fl was likely barely saved last night . 
289	-1	yes but what happens .  .  . nothing ! in broward co nothing happens as those above snipes cover for her ,  courts /  judges etc .  it is corrupt central in broward .  isn ' t broward always in the news ? 
290	-1	cultural appropriation detected
291	-1	would soy milk even work against such spice ? 
292	-1	great .  now make sure they don ' t steal fl and az .  otherwise we have a 52-48 majority yet again depending on murkowski ,  collins ,  and romney . 
293	-1	"""weve issued 40 million green cards since 1970 ,  which means the permanent residency and a path to citizenship for many ,  many people .  but we will not allow our generosity to be abused by those who would break our laws ,  defy our rules ,  violate our borders ,  break into our country illegally .  we wont allow it . ""this is 100% logical and fair .  don ' t worry mr .  president ,  we have your back . "
294	-1	no vacancy
296	-1	incoming salt truck from r / etarded
298	-1	this is great but the dems are actively stealing elections as we speak . 
299	-1	how can you be repressed by a country while you are illegally in another country ?   the request is ridiculous ,  they ' re criminals and need to leave immediately . 
301	-1	april ryan is a loser .  
304	-1	"""i will tell you this: anybody throwing stones ,  rocks  like they did to mexico and the mexican military ,  mexican police ,  where they badly hurt police and soldiers of mexico  we will consider that a firearm .  because theres not much difference ,  where you get hit in the face with a rock  which ,  as you know ,  it was very violent a few days ago  very ,  very violent  that break-in .  it was a break-in of a country .  they broke into mexico . ""exactly .  if i were to walk 2 blocks from my apartment and pelt an officer right in the mouth ,  or even attempt to ,  i ' d be tased or shot ,  and ,  if i survived ,  do 10 years minimum for assaulting an officer .  our military are trained to respond physically to threats and if one of those retarded invaders chucks a water bottle or rock they can expect a facefull of lead .  and i ' d buy a diet coke to celebrate . "
307	-1	president killing it on a small press conference before he leaves for paris 
308	-1	hes taking no prisoners this morning !  ! 
309	-1	see you in europe .  drops the mic  
310	-1	oh not the poor children .  fuck that ,  they are political pawns and we have enough sick ,  hopeless and abused american kids .  open fire ,  repel the invasion .  women children men ,  tough shit . 
311	-1	#thats my president !  
312	-1	maybe we had the timing of this caravan weong .  seemed like they wanted them here before election day to get d support .  but i ' m starting to think this is going to be useful as a way to flood the news cycle to hide all of this election fraud happening .  
313	-1	"""in fiscal year 2018 overall ,  124 , 511 aliens were found inadmissible at ports of entry on the southern border ,  while 396 , 579 aliens were apprehended entering the united states unlawfully between such ports of entry .   the great number of aliens who cross unlawfully into the united states through the southern border consumes tremendous resources as the government seeks to surveil ,  apprehend ,  screen ,  process ,  and detain them . ""now ,  i ' ve always been about fair immigration practice ,  but that 396 , 579 number is larger than the population of cleveland  ( currently 385 , 525 )  .  .  . and that ' s just how many got caught .  my family arrived here during the 1900 ' s and had to go through a legal process .  it ' s only fair to those who have already done so .  i want to discuss this on my social media so badly ,  but i live in a very blue area ,  have a lot of lefty friends ,  and don ' t want things to spiral out of control .  i ""walked away"" just this year ,  and have been a lifelong democrat up until 2018 ,  when i realized that the party was shifting further and further left .  it ' s out of control and people i know and have known for years are losing their minds .  i can ' t handle it . "
314	-1	oh cool ,  one more thing for pantifa to get outraged over .  maybe soros can get a 2 for 1 discount this weekend 
316	-1	this says it ' s from nov 1 .  .  .  i don ' t understand why it ' s being stickied now ? 
317	-1	which cuck reporter was on the receiving end of thats a stupid question ?  msnpc clown ? 
318	-1	> the president: we will consider that the maximum that we can consider that ,  because theyre throwing rocks viciously and violently .  you saw that three days ago .  really hurting the military .  were not going to put up with that .  if they want to throw rocks at our military ,  our military fights back .  were going to consider  and i told them ,  consider it a rifle .  when they throw rocks like they did at the mexico military and police ,  i say ,  consider it a rifle . # no games
319	-1	hes a very sick puppy
321	-1	this is from nov .  1st !   why are you clickbaiting this like it ' s breaking news ?  
322	-1	#this guy knows what ' s up !   president trump ' s agenda is at a severe risk with these thefts ! 
323	-1	that ' s what they ' re doing ,  stealing these and flipping dumbass romney to prevent a scotus pick . 
324	-1	this is from over a week ago
325	-1	i thought we currently have 51 without fl and az .  these 2 states are supposed to push us to 53 . 
326	-1	my reaction ,  exactly .   we need voter id and auditable election counts .   it is simply a matter of civic hygiene .   
328	-1	"amnesty is a terrible policy ,  and it ' s terrible politics .  it ' s a terrible policy because you are rewarding people for breaking the law . ""tom tancredo"
329	-1	it ' s america ' s responsibility to take care of the whole world you racists drumptards !  !  reeeeeeeeeeeeee
330	-1	sometimes i feel that those peoplw just oppose whatever potus says
331	-1	and montana ,  and wisconsin and michigan !  and then we ' re going to go to washington dc to bring it to the supreme court eeeeeeyeeeeeahhhhh !  !  !  ! 
332	-1	"they need to be deported ,  by force ,  if necessary .  that ""deportation force"" looks better by the day .  start with the ""dreamers"" and move on . "
333	-1	it says its not me fuckwits .   its the law
334	-1	got a link for that ?  did a search on youtube came up nadda
335	-1	mexico has refused them transport several times now .   currently they are in mexico city and again have requested mexico bus them to our border . 
336	-1	that one made me kek .  .  .  . and then he walked away lol
337	-1	lmao it sounded like the whuuure from msnpc but i couldn ' t make out exactly what she said
339	-1	anything the president does these days is automatically met with legal challenge anyway . this is a step in the right direction .   also ,  if they move to have immediate hearings and assign the additional judges ,  this could be a good thing . 
340	-1	tent city is ready to house them .  expedited assylum judges on standby for claims .  there is nothing saying we have to process 5000 in a day .  we can do 100 a week .  forcing them to stay at border in an orderly process means we do it on our terms . 
341	-1	read the rest of the thread ,  the  ' order '  itself signed today is linked in the comments . 
342	-1	whether or not we still live in a law-based constitutional republic is at risk . 
343	-1	"yes .  instead of posting this ,  potus ' s pre-flight presser this a . m .  should be posted .  he was on fire .  it was fantastic from start to finish .  he called april ryan a loser .  .  . he pointed at another reporter and said ,  ""that ' s a stupid question .  .  . you always ask stupid questions ,  after she asked if he would fire mueller .  .  . he referred to kellyanne conway ' s husband as ""mr .  kellyanne conway .  .  . "" and he railed against brenda snipes ,  marc elias ,  the russian collusion hoax .  .  . just a few  gems from the 15 minutes of zingers ! "
344	-1	with the mississippi runoff at the end of the month well be at 54
345	-1	it ' s infuriating that democrats want these illegals to come over .  it ' s beyond disrespectful to law-abiding ,  good people that applied and waited legally such as yourself . 
346	-1	lol how far we ' ve come when that could knock someone out of a race . 
348	-1	where was the link ? 
349	-1	"eh ,  still a far cry from ""they ' re not coming into our country"" and talk of building the ""tent cities . ""hopefully that comes with further executive action stating that asylum seekers aren ' t eligible for release into the us until their claims are processed .  period . "
350	-1	pardon me for expecting that the link would not go to a nov .  1 transcript . 
351	-1	that is counting the theft of fl and az
352	-1	you are right .  not happening if we hang onto az and fl . 
353	-1	it ' s happening right now if we don ' t stop it
354	-1	even with ms ,  if democrats get fl and az ,  we will be 52 .  the latter 2 states are supposed to push us to 54 . 
355	-1	there was none ,  i was watching fox news ,  couldnt find a link
356	-1	from my understanding ,  if they enter the country illegally ,  they are no longer able to apply for asylum .  .  they have to apply legally through a port of entry .     
357	-1	hot happening
359	-1	we must treasure and protect the 2nd amendment at all costs .  we do not want to become the uk or sweden . 
360	-1	bet the offender will be back on the streets in short order ,  unfortunately .  hopefully another great citizen like this one is there to stop him next time as well
361	-1	is this the tyranny our founders were concerned about ?  
362	-1	the active operation by the democrats to steal the election is of tantamount importance .  but so is preserving 2a .  we can walk and chew gum . 
363	-1	but that one woman cried and said she wanted gun control !  we should tear up the constitution ! 
364	-1	i don ' t carry to protect other people and be a hero ,  in an active shooter situation i ' m running ,  hiding ,  unless i ' m cornered .  that said ,  the sound of a woman screaming for help is something you can ' t ignore .  well ,  except those crazy bitches in kenzo who get too high and start freaking out in the middle of the street .  what i ' m trying to say is ,  this guy is a hero . 
365	-1	the amount of shit i hear going on in california these days is crazy .  people i know that still live there are telling me they ' re getting followed home from work .  others have had their front doors kicked down and houses robbed in broad daylight .  another got jumped in a parking lot by four guys and got robbed .  luckily haven ' t heard anyone i know there being raped yet .  stay safe pedes ,  the news isn ' t reporting this shit ,  only shootings to take away gun rights .  
366	-1	i wonder if the guy played red dead 2 .  if so he was well trained for this lol
367	-1	ive done something very similar but it just never made headlines .  many times the stories about how guns saved lives dont .  
368	-1	"the left to women: ""sorry ,  you ' re just going to have to accept being raped .  if you don ' t manage to attract help from your screams ,  just accept that it ' s going to happen .  you ' re not allowed to arm yourselves to protect yourselves .  just call the police after ,  if you ' re still alive ,  and report it"""
371	-1	"yeah .  too many people are reporting rape in sweden .  and trump introduced ""stop enabling sex traffickers act"" in the us because it never happens here . "
372	-1	these people vote in the people and policies that ruin their home ,  then run because it ' s impossible to survive there .  then will come to my home and do the same thing there .  .  blows my mind . 
373	-1	texas is going to be ruined 
374	-1	i met one last night at 7-11 .  .  .  a leftist ,  not a commiefornian .  this was a white guy .  older ,  he wanted beto to win .  i was shocked that in texas you had people openly supporting that guy .  but then again ,  dallas is a blue city .  whats even more strange about dallas is tha ,  its like a socialism experiment in real time .  the city of dallas  implemented heavy taxes on business and seemingly overnight ,  downtown dallas became a gohst town filled with empty building ' s of business that vacated dallas to go to to cities surrounding dallas while dallas contracts and chokes on its own socialist blood . 
375	-1	san francisco ,  the poop capital of america ,  why would they want to leave the paradise they created ? 
376	-1	california is the primary tumor .  and now it ' s metastasizing . 
377	-1	fucking locusts .  destroy everything then move on
378	-1	damn .  .  . there are already 500 people each week moving into austin . 
379	-1	npcs are a plague ,  they infect an area and spread dumb policies and group think
381	-1	quick ,  someone pass right to life laws and policies that say trans is a mental illness lmao
383	-1	the locusts are swarming 
385	-1	texas ,  i recommend walling off the whole state . 
386	-1	we have survived forever with no wall to the south .   where we need a wall is to the west and northeast to stop these leftist morons from moving here .  don ' t california my texas .  
387	-1	then they ' ll vote for the same things that killed san fran / 
388	-1	like a flock of shitbirds leaving their shitnests ,  randy . 
389	-1	texas pede here - can confirm ,  see more and more cuckifornia plates every day here in the san antonio area . 
390	-1	when its all said and done ,  california will be composed of rich people ,  overpaid government employees and poor people .  just like a 3rd world country . 
391	-1	time for states to put a massive entrance tax for residents of california ,  make it impossible for them to move there
392	-1	locusts .  
393	-1	they are like gypsies .  shit all over the place and move to the next location 
395	-1	california knowingly infecting texas with hiv .   
399	-1	the need to keep on going south to mexico and beyond .   .  my home is already compromised enough . 
400	-1	those that are moving out ,  are most likely people who hate it there already because they are in the minority .  probably some pedes tired of san franscisco .  at least thats what i hope . 
51	-1	this is texas ' s fault .  they advertised in california for years .  
52	-1	"""oh no ,  we ' ve fucked this place up ,  where would be a nice place to live ? "" "
53	-1	sf population is nearly a million .  61% of 46% of that is 280 , 000 people .  if 65% of these are liberals ,  that ' s a net export of 182000 libtards for texas .  conservatives better start having babies and instilling conservative values and guarding against libtard brainwashing .  
55	-1	fuck that shit !  we should make a new law where when you move to a new state ,  youre not allowed to vote for at least 8 years ! 
56	-1	no !  no !  no !  !  !  texas needs a law stating any new resident will pay the tax rate of where they came from to tx for 5 years . 
58	-1	"prepare for the ""refugee fallacy . "" they claim the want to escape something that ' s failed .  .  . then continue the same actions that led to its failure . "
59	-1	they will bring their politics though .  that ' s whats happening in new hampshire .  all the little massholes are moving to nh border towns ,  and voting blue .  .  . 
60	-1	quick ,  gregg .   make a law that says all incoming residents must own a gun . 
61	-1	if there ever is another civil war in this country  ( god forbid i don ' t want or wish for one )  i would bet my left nut that it begins in texas
63	-1	it ' s literally an ideological virus .   it infects a host .   sometimes pretends to be something it isn ' t ,  sometimes hides in the shadows ,  sometimes overwhelms .   but it replicates in the host until it explodes .   then it spreads to healthy areas and repeats the process . 
64	-1	yeah ,  and there is literally nothing we can do about it .  
65	-1	fucking locusts 
66	-1	can california secede already ?  yeah ,  yeah ,  yeah ,  youre the sixth largest economy blah blah blah  ( yet cant properly budget water ,  is perpetually on fire ,  and have people pooping in your streets )  . 
67	-1	we are having the same problem in florida with the influx of liberal puerto ricans who came after maria .  i don ' t blame them ,  they don ' t know any better because they have been brain washed by socialists .  we need more red pill dispensers .  conservative values classes should be mandatory in school .  the liberals already push their indoctrination anyway .  maybe the heritage foundation can come up with a curriculum .  
68	-1	it ' s simply amazing to me that people who fuck up their states like california ,  oregon ,  illinois and others move to other areas and then continue ,  continue to vote for the same policies and have the same mentality that doomed their home state to begin with and it starts dooming the state they move to . it ' s a sickness of the mind .   
71	-1	if texas starts to turn blue because of cities and illegals ,  i have a feeling things will get very interesting down there .  the rest of texas isnt going to just take that lying down .   
72	-1	the democrat locus agenda in full effect .   texas should enact laws that you must live in the state for ten consecutive years before voting or running for any type of local or state office . 
73	-1	as a fed up ny state resident ,  i have plans of moving to tx ,  and so do many conservative new yorker ' s .  our governor says there is no place for conservative thought in ny anymore ,  we will keep tx red . 
74	-1	the invasion started years ago .   california plates are a common sight in the major cities . 
75	-1	when i see somebody in a car with california tags i tell him to stay the fuck out of my state they ' re not welcome here i don ' t care if they ' re red or blue or whatever just stay the fuck out you assholes ruined it now stay there and fuckin fix it
78	-1	texas needs to find a way to limit movement from cali .  .  . i dont want my texas turned into cali2 . 0
79	-1	its like massholes who move to nh for the lower taxes and lower cost of living then start demanding all sorts of government services .  
80	-1	can we just add onto the southern border wall ?  just wrap it around all the way please ok thanks ! 
82	-1	#s e c e d ethey are trying flood us out of our own home state .  fucking carpetbaggers ! 
83	-1	this seems like the plot for a horror movie .  
84	-1	a lot of things will change once the wall is finished and illegals start getting shipped out .  
85	-1	is it possible many of them are republicans who are seeking conducive environment ?  
86	-1	yeah ,  let ' s leave one shithole and start another with the same bullshit policies .  fucking morons .  
87	-1	need new law .  if you vote for policies ,  there ' s a 1% chance you are chosen to get deported to a country that is run using those policieslet ' s see how fast people start changing their tune when there are real and immediate repercussions for their decisions
89	-1	like a plague of locusts they leave destruction in their wake . 
90	-1	you know ,  those planning to move may also include conservatives who have given up on california wants to go to tx cause it suits their personal beliefs . 
91	-1	i ' m sure there are tons of conservatives in that mix .  i am a native san diegan ,  and although it ' s a military town ,  it ' s very liberal .  all the conservatives that i know are pretty quiet about it .  i ' ve been followed / harassed / flipped off on the road for having conservative stickers on my car ,  and had said stickers torn off my car .  now that sleazy newsom is in office ,  i see the state going downhill fast .  if i were to move ,  texas would be high on the list because of its *mostly* conservative reputation and less strict gun laws . while i would never want to live in san fran because i think it is a shithole city ,  it is where a lot of the great paying jobs are for people in the tech / digital industry .  that ' s attractive regardless of your political persuasions  ( i ' m in that industry .  )  i like to think that some of the people leaving sf are fed up with seeing a beautiful city go to crap under democratic rule ,  and they may be leaning more toward a moderate or conservative vote in the future .  
92	-1	i believe a huge part of the problem is our banking system .   every american ends up in debt because of the fed - but they don ' t even feel it .  this creates perverse incentives to keep adding new social programs that liberals know we can never pay for - but they are very popular . even trump can ' t fix them - as a result we are hurtling towards disaster .  .   it ' s basically like maxing out all your credit cards and then getting new ones .  .  people like cortez want state paid healthcare ,  college and housing .  but its not really state paid - its debt paid .  
93	-1	headed our way ?  the first couple of waves are already here .  cruz v .  o ' rourke being empirical evidence of this . 
95	-1	theyre already here .  
96	-1	all i can hope for is that they can express their views in a non violent ,  constructive way .  i have no issues with other viewpoints ,  as long as the people giving it are respectful and have an explanation
97	-1	hey guys ,  i had a sudden epiphany a few days ago while speaking with someone about technology stuff in texas .  this is **all intentional !  !  ! ** this invasion in texas is all about texas being #2 in tech .  this is a schmidt long game to wipe out silicon valley competition ! 
98	-1	time for some fact checking ,  boys . 
100	-1	"well ,  let ' s see ,  op .  .  .  there ' s rising standard of living ,  rising housing costs ,  and shifts in the technology sector of employment ,  with austin , tx being one of the top 3 cities in the u . s .  that are expanding so greatly in that . this has nothing to do with politics - this is business . you wanting to make this about ""leftists"" is abhorrent .  you ' re part of the problem . "
