	label	comment
5	1	all-in-all ,  i ' ll take it .   we ' ve got some actual power for the first time in 2 years . 
7	1	i ' m going to be honest ,  i ' m really nervous about the results tonight and i feel like it ' s going to be 2016 all over again .  i ' m just trying to stay optimistic ,  if worst comes to worst i have so much self-care activities planned tonight . 
8	1	regardless of how this night turns out ,  i ' m really impressed to see so many people vote this year . 
11	1	oh wow ,  you guys started doing weekly roundtables !  yay !  will check this more often ! 
13	1	been a while .  i voted .  early returns are looking as good as can be expected . 
19	1	just wanted to say i love you all ,  and that today was a good day . 
23	1	to all the people protesting please stay safe
27	1	lol .   that is the cure for any anxiety i was feeling here on election eve . 
30	1	we lose senate seat after senate seat ,  does anyone ever say schumer has to go ? no lets attack the woman who made it possible we took back the house
31	1	that is good beer .  
33	1	exactly !  and i ' d like to see these fresh reps who pledged not to vote for pelosi swim among the sharks . 
34	1	there needs to be a house select committee on voting rights and oversight has to watch the 2020 census setup like a hawk . 
52	1	truth .  drug war .  gang organization .  corruption .  
65	1	politician ?   why not just name trump ? 
66	1	politicians like trump . 
67	1	pence thinks the only good jews love jesus ,  and may be wearing human skin for a mask .  but still a better human than trump .  
70	1	are you sure im fine
84	1	i swear ,  she ' s one of the few public figures who actually cares . 
85	1	yeah cause that what she said right ?  i guess this humanitarian crisis shouldn ' t get any attention ,  right ? 
94	1	"""in the end ,  everybody knew what had to be done . ""this was the last line in something i heard on npr a long time ago .  it was a woman who was a young adult in hitler ' s time ,  i don ' t remember the exact context .  it was the end of one of those progressive statements ,  like the one that begins ""first they came for the socialists .  .  . "" and ends with "" .  .  .  and then they came for me ,  and there was no one left to speak for me"" . she was talking about how at first they listened to every thing the fuehrer said ,  and then i don ' t remember the middle part ,  but the last line ""in the end ,  everybody knew what had to be done , "" has stuck with me .  in the end the fuehrer didn ' t need to speak ,  people did what they believed was his bidding because they knew ""what was in his heart"" . "
96	1	the link gives me a 404 error .  
101	1	>trump is the enemy because he is a liar and a crook and a thug ,  and he sits in a position of the highest power . >the idea of american history as an uneven forward march toward greater democracy ,  despite occasional setbacks and errors ,  is flatly untrue . >immediately after the civil war ,  black men were granted suffrage and were able to hold office ,  in a multiracial democracy .  a successful campaign of terror ,  permitted by a compliant national government and supported by intellectuals ,  stripped the freed people of their rights and kept them in subjugation for most of the following century .  **the country went backwards ,  savagely and enthusiastically ,  and stayed there for generations . ** the fourteenth amendment was a set of words on paper ,  with no power to protect peoples rights or their lives against the racist laws and policies that had been put into effect .  **the results were so brutal and effective that by the 1930s ,  the nazis werestudying them as an   exaple of where a country might be able to go . **
107	1	how can anyone question that after this weekend ' s events ? 
121	1	you ' re so desperate you try to troll a mostly dead sub .  not a lot going on in your life ,  is there ?  maybe you should try canvassing . 
122	1	these peoples brains are broken .  
124	1	a woman testified under oath putting her entire life on the line .  where is this evidence of fabrication you speak of ? 
126	1	thats when the country went to hell: when mccain chose this dumbf*ck as his vp candidate
129	1	>i suspect they were funded by left-wing billionaires who are trying to make our fine president ,  donald trump ,  look incompetent . shes talkin about the dude who cant work an umbrella 
146	1	we listened fine .  a lot of us just want to end things like birthright citizenship and common decency .   ( or we value tax cuts more .  ) 
147	1	it could ' ve been worse had trump not have been voted in .  imagine the crippling effects clinton would have had .  phew ,  we dodged a bullet there . 
148	1	i ' m a far leftist progressive but i fucking love hillary .  i ' m one progressive that like to say i ' m sorry for doubting you .  i voted for you and campaign for you but didn ' t put in my 100% and never spoke up for you when other progressives were trashing you .  we fucked up  .  .  .  . big time .  
155	1	long past time ! 
156	1	i dont need medicare funded catheters anyways . 
161	1	as soon as we revise the 2nd amendment too . 
167	1	"i think this is the media jumping the gun  a bit - listening to this interview it really doesn ' t sound to me like she ' s thinking of running - she said ""no"" pretty clearly .  to the question .   i think she ' s more saying she wishes she had become president  ( of course she does ,  as do i !  )  and believes she ' s qualified to be president  ( which she is )  .   she might be genuinely interested in another stint as secretary of state however ,  given her point about reminding the world ,  currently confused by trump ,  what america stands for . "
175	1	i hope she runs again 
176	1	i love hillary ,  but maybe she should instead endorse a candidate like kamala harris or kirsten gillibrand 
178	1	no .  she had two chances already and lost both times .  
192	1	why should she endorse an inexperienced person who lacks the credentials and chops to do the job ? the only other women even remotely qualified for the potus right now are pelosi and duckworth .   and neither are as qualified as clinton  ( who is the most qualified person ,  not the most qualified woman )  .   put harris or gillibrand in the cabinet for 8 years or so to prepare and then lets talk about them .   pelosi and duckworth have leadership experience that they lack . 
194	1	"actually she won the popular vote in the 2008 primary but obama got 230 more super delegates . so the sequence is ,  ""win the popular vote but have a non-democratic entity give the win to someone else ,  run again ,  win both the popular vote and the non-democratic entity ' s vote on the second go round"" . "
199	1	the problem with hillary is that she cares about policy and running the country more than anything else so unless people change the way they look at our leaders ,  then hillary or someone like her is set up to fail .  
5	1	found the bernie bro .  .  . 
7	1	why does it have to be a woman ? 
8	1	why would you count michigan ? 
11	1	unfortunately ,  hillary comes with a lot of baggage  .  .  . 
13	1	what else are they going to attack her on ?  no one divided the left ,  and helped legitimize trump more than bernie .  the gop / trump hit machine will attack anyone that wins the nomination ,  and will use that to energize voters .  listen ,  i would like to see someone like kamala harris and chris murphy  ( or even beto )  win the primary ,  but im not going to tell hillary clinton to take a damn seat .  especially if bernie and biden run .  
19	1	man ,  then bernie is gonna have a *tough time*
23	1	all they need to do is drag up everything that they dragged up last time .  it worked ,  didn ' t it ?  it mystifies me that people would want to try something that has already failed once .  she deserved to win in 2016 but no ,  i don ' t think she ' s the best candidate for 2020 .  better to have a fresh face that people will be willing to flock to in comparison to trump .  
27	1	bernie is a fraud ,  nuff said . really dont feel like discussing him again on the hillary sub . 
30	1	the death nail turning point was republicans desperate coward one term obama agenda .  
31	1	calm down ,  i tried to watch it on my ipad and that ' s what it told me .  now i ' m on desktop and it ' s playing .  very strange ! 
33	1	alternative facts . 
34	1	how is that not like charles manson 
206	-1	the hillary clinton of broward county
208	-1	she looks more like ursula to me . 
209	-1	noticing that democrats are trying to steal elections is a threat to our democracy ! 
212	-1	we should have been prepared for this .   after all the shit the dems pulled ,  all the way up to trump ' s inauguration ?   they have no doubt been preparing to steal each and every election they could ,  all across the country . 
214	-1	since djt bcecame president the left has not been able to contain itself ! every dirty ,  crafty ,  underhanded scheme is being exposed because they dont like losing !  !  !  !  ! 
220	-1	this picture makes my balls want to crawl up my anus for some reason .  .  . 
224	-1	one thing that i thought this morning while on the crapper:  what if trump knew he had to flush their corruption this cycle ?  ?     the dems always use corruption in key locations ,  broward ,  philly ,  durham ,  to win key states .    this may end up being the best example ever of 4d chess .    the dems may have completely exposed their rue .    
228	-1	well it seems to be working wish our republican reps would come together and talk about this a little more .  
231	-1	not just florida but arizona too
232	-1	dont worry pedes .  awan bros just found two more boxes of ballots in pakistan .  they did not check contents because they did not want to tamper with them .  everything is fine .  
234	-1	that picture is raysis !  ! 
235	-1	what do you mean tried ? she ' s already stolen the ag race and republicans won ' t do anything about it
253	-1	eyes glossed over from loathing ,  lying ,  drinkin '  .   the reptile brain has taken over . 
266	-1	az is doomed .  we actually have hope for fl since the potus tweeted about fl and not the other states . 
267	-1	folks in arizona have a life-altering choice to make if the dems succeed in stealing the election .  
268	-1	arizona is already lost . 
271	-1	fl pede here too ,  all 4 in our family voted de santis /  scott .  i will stand with you ! 
285	-1	> this is what happens when there is no consequences to what they do . but it ' s even worse than this .  .  .  she was left in her position on purpose .   she is there to help democrats steal elections ,  so the real question for me is who is the person that has allowed her to stay in her position ?   it ' s just too convenient that she ' s always there in every election to help the democrats cheat .  
286	-1	what if it was soy milk ?  
295	-1	drop the fucking hammer on these fools .   go all out ,  i dont care anymore .   they wanna fucking play ?  let ' s play
297	-1	kick their asses out and stop election fraud in az ,  fl ,  tx .  .  . 
302	-1	they gotta go back .  take every single illegal that ' s already in this country as well !  !  !  ! 
308	-1	hes taking no prisoners this morning !  ! 
322	-1	#this guy knows what ' s up !   president trump ' s agenda is at a severe risk with these thefts ! 
323	-1	that ' s what they ' re doing ,  stealing these and flipping dumbass romney to prevent a scotus pick . 
325	-1	i thought we currently have 51 without fl and az .  these 2 states are supposed to push us to 53 . 
327	-1	as someone who waited patiently ,  and legally and paid $$$$s for the wonderful privilege of attaining a gc and eventually the right to vote for this wonderful president two years ago as my first presidential election ,  i agree !  ! 
330	-1	sometimes i feel that those peoplw just oppose whatever potus says
347	-1	cant do much in wi and mt when rosendale and walker have conceded and said they will offer any support to the dems in the lame duck period . 
348	-1	where was the link ? 
349	-1	"eh ,  still a far cry from ""they ' re not coming into our country"" and talk of building the ""tent cities . ""hopefully that comes with further executive action stating that asylum seekers aren ' t eligible for release into the us until their claims are processed .  period . "
356	-1	from my understanding ,  if they enter the country illegally ,  they are no longer able to apply for asylum .  .  they have to apply legally through a port of entry .     
357	-1	hot happening
362	-1	the active operation by the democrats to steal the election is of tantamount importance .  but so is preserving 2a .  we can walk and chew gum . 
368	-1	"the left to women: ""sorry ,  you ' re just going to have to accept being raped .  if you don ' t manage to attract help from your screams ,  just accept that it ' s going to happen .  you ' re not allowed to arm yourselves to protect yourselves .  just call the police after ,  if you ' re still alive ,  and report it"""
376	-1	california is the primary tumor .  and now it ' s metastasizing . 
377	-1	fucking locusts .  destroy everything then move on
379	-1	npcs are a plague ,  they infect an area and spread dumb policies and group think
393	-1	they are like gypsies .  shit all over the place and move to the next location 
395	-1	california knowingly infecting texas with hiv .   
400	-1	those that are moving out ,  are most likely people who hate it there already because they are in the minority .  probably some pedes tired of san franscisco .  at least thats what i hope . 
56	-1	no !  no !  no !  !  !  texas needs a law stating any new resident will pay the tax rate of where they came from to tx for 5 years . 
58	-1	"prepare for the ""refugee fallacy . "" they claim the want to escape something that ' s failed .  .  . then continue the same actions that led to its failure . "
59	-1	they will bring their politics though .  that ' s whats happening in new hampshire .  all the little massholes are moving to nh border towns ,  and voting blue .  .  . 
62	-1	no noooooooo ,  don ' t kalifornia my texas ! 
64	-1	yeah ,  and there is literally nothing we can do about it .  
70	-1	the virus will spread to texas ,  and infect the entire region .   the usa will be a socialist / fascist country in less than 20 years . we had our chance with voter id .   now its only a matter of time . 
74	-1	the invasion started years ago .   california plates are a common sight in the major cities . 
78	-1	texas needs to find a way to limit movement from cali .  .  . i dont want my texas turned into cali2 . 0
81	-1	leftists running away from their socialist policies they created themselves now taking them to tx
82	-1	#s e c e d ethey are trying flood us out of our own home state .  fucking carpetbaggers ! 
84	-1	a lot of things will change once the wall is finished and illegals start getting shipped out .  
85	-1	is it possible many of them are republicans who are seeking conducive environment ?  
