comment body,comment author,comment id,subreddit
"[@jmillerlewis:](https://twitter.com/jmillerlewis/status/1060565844000980993)  

* This is click-bait journalism at its worst. The Daily Beast left out Bernie's quotes calling the campaigns DeSantis, Trump and Kemp ran ""racist.""  
 
* What Bernie actually said was DeSantis, Kemp and Trump ran explicitly racist campaigns. 

* [Here is the audio](https://soundcloud.com/user-551024902/daily-beast-interview) of the relevant portion of Bernie's interview.  

 *  ""Gillum ran a great campaign and he had to take on some of the most ugly and blatant racism that we have seen in many, many years.""  

 * ""Bernie: ""Why don't we use the right word? Not use the phrase 'race oriented'. Why don't we say racist? How's that?"" Gideon Resnick: ""Is that what ended up with these margins?"" Bernie: ""I think so.""  

[@kartpath:](https://twitter.com/kartpath/status/1060572324712321025)  

* People upset about this should listen to the clip. They're upset Bernie is not faulting the voters themselves as racists. Which seems to me like a worldview thing; Bernie lays the blame on DeSantis, Kemp, and Trump for blanketing the airwaves with racist trash.  

[@_waleedshahid](https://twitter.com/_waleedshahid/status/1060574619348942850)

* The editors at The Daily Beast should correct this tweet and headline to say: Bernie Sanders says ""racism"" contributed to why candidates like Gillum and Abrams didn't succeed while still generating new energy and enthusiasm within the Democratic Party.

 Because that's what he said.   

[@scottdetrow:](https://twitter.com/scottdetrow/status/1060623136146817025)  

* Spoke to Bernie Sanders today. Longer story coming in a bit but on the question of Gillum and Abrams and race he said [it was the opposing campaigns’ tactics that was the issue in his mind.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DrgXHk3U0AAcL9l.jpg)  

",Chartis,e9bd6kw,SandersForPresident
"Bernie on Twitter: [Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns.](https://twitter.com/berniesanders/status/1060589573653311488?s=21)

>Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns. One ad the Republicans put out was even rejected by Fox television because of its racist content. They used racist rhetoric to divide people and advance  agendas that would harm the majority of Americans. 

>In Florida, Andrew Gillum, whom I was proud to stand with even during the primaries, faced week after week of racism from his opponent and allied forces. That's just a fact. And in the end, I believe those craven attacks founded in ""fear of the other"" had an impact on the outcome. Stacey Abrams faced similar attacks, in addition to unprecedented voter suppression. That's a reality that has to change.

>It is our job now to continue to offer an alternative to the hate-filled agenda of Trump and Republican operatives. We need to offer a vision that all people, regardless of their race or country of origin, are part of a shared destiny as one people.  We have to fight for the soul of our country at this critical moment.  Part of that effort is to be honest about what our divisive opponents are trying to accomplish and how it is tearing at the very fabric of our democracy and our common humanity. We've got to continue doing everything that we can to fight all forms of racism.",gideonvwainwright,e9bes67,SandersForPresident
It's not Trump or his righthards who are going to go after Sanders only. It's Clinton's supporters who'll grasp at anything they can to bring down Sanders.,huskman,e9c7o9u,SandersForPresident
"Get ready the right wing and the folks at TD are going to go after bernie hard 


",Matthmaroo,e9c157d,SandersForPresident
Btw I’m sure it’s a coincidence that this totally fabricated controversy came out on the same day people caught Kamala Harris leeching money off of Stacey Abrams’ supporters https://www.pastemagazine.com/articles/2018/11/kamala-harris-is-effectively-stealing-money-from-s.html?fbclid=iwar3fx0lwwdfewmyqxlgh-ky8xcqh4iiu_fvv16wdaqcuzphpnb4gysam6zm,Greg06897,e9c7wmt,SandersForPresident
"Not just them, ESS is eating this up right now.  Actual fake news, and they're buying it.  This shit is why Trump gets away with destroying the free press, because journalistic standards are in the toilet right now.",Terrible_Inspection,e9c7xxz,SandersForPresident
"No

trump and the GOP are going to go hard on Bernie


They are already working on turning democratic socialism into Maoism or Stalinism ",Matthmaroo,e9c822s,SandersForPresident
"Of course, they've been doing that to anyone left of Mussolini for the last couple decades.  I'm just saying centrist Democrats are doing the same shit too.",Terrible_Inspection,e9c8eat,SandersForPresident
"Ehh


Can’t have everyone as a enemy 


Someone that agrees with you 80% is still a good ally 


I am polar opposite  to a trumper but not to a moderate Democrat ",Matthmaroo,e9c8i1j,SandersForPresident
"Sure, I don't treat them as enemies and after primaries are over, I, like Bernie support just about every Democrat on the ballot.  But in the 2020 primaries, there will absolutely be different factions of the party going against each other, and, as Tuesday night proved, if a Joe Donnelly Democrat wins the nomination, we are getting four more years of Trump.",Terrible_Inspection,e9c8m70,SandersForPresident
"Fair enough

You seem to be pretty rational


I try to get people to realize here that if Bernie wins nomination he will be a democrat leading the Democratic Party 

A big tent and we should all get along and work together when we can",Matthmaroo,e9c8qd2,SandersForPresident
"Sure, and I don't even mind conservative Democrats running where they have to (Manchin, Tester, etc.).  I prefer to fight things out in the primaries and come together in the general, I just recognize it has to sometimes get a little dirty in the primaries.",Terrible_Inspection,e9c8wgt,SandersForPresident
We had 62 % but lost Keith and a couple others ...How many do we need to cosponsor hr676? It would be nice to get it to 75% of house dems,4now5now6now,e9azq8e,SandersForPresident
"H.R.676 [Before](https://i.imgur.com/pgU7zcI.jpg) & [After](https://i.imgur.com/IpKBiE3.png) Congress was last pressed. We also saw similar results more recently in regards to the Medicare For All caucus. Both of which *you* can be a part of advancing. More info [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9vbij8/no_need_to_wait_newly_elected_reps_can_join_the/) & [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9v0sja/heres_why_the_gop_is_really_terrified_of_medicare/e99j79j/)  

>We are going to pass a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program.

-Bernie, [June 23^rd '18](https://youtu.be/CquyXLTiu98?t=124)  

When is up to us.  ",Chartis,e9c1wmi,SandersForPresident
"Thank you.... you are so on top of everything

So Harley Rouda won ( flipped the 48th)  Medicare for all on his website and Bernie campaigned for him and..... Dr Kim won Washington 8 with Med for all on website... I call reps all over and I tell them that I donate... Just be polite to interns ",4now5now6now,e9c28ok,SandersForPresident
Beto isn't supporting M4A?,sasiralla,e9cxis0,SandersForPresident
"It's a silly, almost pointless statistic. But it does have some meaning when combined with other statistics.

For instance, in NJ we had a choice between Menendez (Uber corrupt Democrat) and Hugin (marginally corrupt ""independent""). Hugin spent the entire campaign season saying he wasn't going to be another rubber stamp senator for Trump. 2 weeks before the election, Trump starts campaigning for him. Hugin went from a roughly 3% lead to 10% behind. He finished just shy of 10% behind.

But the important statistic is that in exit polls 7 out of 10 voters said they voted for Menendez, despite the corruption, because they wanted someone they could trust to oppose Trump. Had Trump kept his mouth shut, Hugin might have been able to pull it off. ",TheVermonster,e9cy5mw,SandersForPresident
"He simply has to run, there is no excuse.",bolbteppa,e9ckc9w,SandersForPresident
"Meanwhile in ESS:

""Did ANYONE Bernie endorsed win?""

It's a bit of a conditional statistic either way, since you could go and endorse all the long-shot people in the world and have a terrible %-rate, but still be doing good work by helping some of them pull off upsets. But at least it removes the shallow ESS criticism.",S3lvah,e9clisr,SandersForPresident
"Damned if they didn’t win in critical areas though. Drumpf campaigned for now Republican-stooge Josh Hawley in my state, and I’m pretty sure the rally appearances he put in helped.",reddog323,e9czoot,SandersForPresident
"He must run, he will win. The reason he's needed is BECAUSE neither party would want him in the office.",rtullyjr,e9cv6qa,SandersForPresident
"This stat is pretty meaningless. Maybe Trump only bothered to endorse candidates who were behind, because he didn’t want to put effort into candidates that he thought were safely ahead.

If I wanted to, I could have endorsed some candidates and have 100% of my endorsements win. I would have endorsed Bernie, Elizabeth Warren, etc. 100% of my endorsements winning doesn’t mean I actually had any influence.",NastyNas0,e9cxee6,SandersForPresident
"I find it so interesting that, 3 days after election day, we still have to say ""21 or 28 percent"". It's 2018, have we not found a better/quicker way to count votes at this point?",CommoG33k,e9d2k5s,SandersForPresident
It's almost like the people trust Sanders and he has their support to make good decisions.,holdtheotter,e9d2p2u,SandersForPresident
It's almost like the people trust Sanders and he has their support to make good decisions.,holdtheotter,e9d2pmb,SandersForPresident
"As much as I love Sanders, he only endorsed candidates in heavily democratic areas, so, of course he had a high win rate.  It is telling, however, that Trump had such a low win rate even though he endorsed candidates from deeper red areas.",krom0025,e9d2rug,SandersForPresident
I was waiting for this analysis. He endorsed everyone who was running basically. A complete and total endorsement! And he basically did ~25%. Nice joerb. ,apache_alfredo,e9cvfkp,SandersForPresident
"I'm sure that this will be at the top of /r/politics 

(SARCASM - that place became /r/correcttherecord after the primary)",geeked_outHyperbagel,e9cyl35,SandersForPresident
"Makes sense, I hate Cuomo, he's as corrupt as they come, but i voted for him because I wasn't gonna put a Trump aligned governor in charge of the state. ",twitch1982,e9cyfwf,SandersForPresident
Independent that’s super far to the right that’s sad. I voted for an independent senator in Missouri but he was further left than Claire McCaskill the dem running ,EventuallyScratch54,e9d2jad,SandersForPresident
"Fuck, if only this logic had prevailed in 2016 we wouldn't even be talking about President Trump. ",Kazhawrylak,e9d38pa,SandersForPresident
ESS are straight-up prematurely-senile Hillary stans. ,St-4_backup,e9cswfw,SandersForPresident
"How much of the Biden percentage were safe seat establishment backed juggernauts? Did they back Sherrod Brown and Manchin, for instance? ",robotzor,e9cs0lu,SandersForPresident
"This seems relevant because of the bizarre speech Trump made on Wednesday about how all the Republicans who lost were losers who should have embraced him, because then they wouldn’t have lost. He endorsed candidates who had embraced him, who then lost anyway. He stumped HARD for candidates he endorsed, and while his support in Missouri seems intact, in general these endorsements weren’t the golden ticket to victoryville Trump must have thought they were - hence the weird speech meant apparently to maintain his ego in the face of reality by pettily throwing members of his party under the bus for absolutely no other reason than to give him and his supporters a plausible (to them apparently) reason for the loss (in addition to the obvious “they stole the vote” narrative that was obviously coming from the start, even though actual numbers are only now, deep into hand-counting in largely liberal areas, catching up with these places’ exit polling predictions.) It’s just an interesting bit of information that gives a little more color to the already vibrantly petulant picture we have of 45.",Xpress_interest,e9d0tjk,SandersForPresident
"He endorsed Matt Rosendale here in Montana, even visiting the state 4 times to stump for him. Rosendale was behind by as much as 9 points but only lost by 3. Just an example where Trump put a ton of effort into a candidate that was behind.",ijake95,e9d23y8,SandersForPresident
"It's a complete echo chamber at this point. It's just insane. 

",StockmanBaxter,e9d09it,SandersForPresident
"He tried to make the claim that he had to run as a republican to unseat him. The problem with that, is the whole idea of primaries. Menendez almost lost the primary to a woman with no political background, who self funded a campaign starting 3 months before the primaries. Menendez even out spent her 10:1 and only got 60% of the vote.

Hugin could have decimated him in the primaries if he was A) actually independent/centrist and B) not a giant douche. ",TheVermonster,e9d2tyq,SandersForPresident
"It literally tells you in the article, if you clicked on it. 

>Obama campaigned in close districts, and Biden’s average was R+3.33. Sanders, however, only campaigned in very Democratic districts, districts where the average PVI was D+10.

In other words, Biden campaigned in  districts that leaned Republican, Sanders campaigned in very Democratic ones. ",ChickenNGravy,e9csq1r,SandersForPresident
It's /r/russiagate over there. ,geeked_outHyperbagel,e9d1cph,SandersForPresident
"Which makes sense. More liberal districts should have more progressive candidates. More Republicans will have more centrist Democrats. That said, pretty solid framing of how read that statistic.",TRIPITIS,e9cxdnh,SandersForPresident
But his narrative!,wdomon,e9ct9em,SandersForPresident
"Smh at the ""my vote doesn't count"" people.   
**1640 votes** \- That's less than a student section at a college football game.",WolverineBlue18,e9b7csq,SandersForPresident
Can he help un-gerrymander? Are governors related to that?,TheAbsurdSanjuanino,e9be0fu,SandersForPresident
"[@shaunking:](https://twitter.com/shaunking/status/1060582840478433284)

* I believe that if every vote is actually counted in Georgia that Stacey Abrams is going to force a runoff election.

 I believe that if so much voter suppression did not happen she would've won outright.",Chartis,e9b2xfx,SandersForPresident
"One of the biggest things I see out of Florida is the renewed right for felons to vote—over a million of them. That's likely going to have a significant impact on 2020, since they're motivated *to* vote in lieu of all the attention Rick Scott's arbitrary review panel.",lennybird,e9bazog,SandersForPresident
">Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns. One ad the Republicans put out was even rejected by Fox television because of its racist content. They used racist rhetoric to divide people and advance agendas that would harm the majority of Americans.

>In Florida, Andrew Gillum, whom I was proud to stand with even during the primaries, faced week after week of racism from his opponent and allied forces. That's just a fact. And in the end, I believe those craven attacks founded in ""fear of the other"" had an impact on the outcome. Stacey Abrams faced similar attacks, in addition to unprecedented voter suppression. That's a reality that has to change.

>It is our job now to continue to offer an alternative to the hate-filled agenda of Trump and Republican operatives. We need to offer a vision that all people, regardless of their race or country of origin, are part of a shared destiny as one people. We have to fight for the soul of our country at this critical moment. Part of that effort is to be honest about what our divisive opponents are trying to accomplish and how it is tearing at the very fabric of our democracy and our common humanity. **We've got to continue doing everything that we can to fight all forms of racism.**  

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1060589573653311488)  

>Seems like forever ago I met [this incredibly impressive insurgent candidate](https://scontent.fyyc2-1.fna.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45488926_2204402346547013_8238730791174012928_o.jpg?_nc_cat=111&_nc_ht=scontent.fyyc2-1.fna&oh=a1903fe0797397b24ee5b32c952af8f6&oe=5C73959F) for the Democratic nomination for Florida governor. Let's bring it home today in the Sunshine State and across the nation.  

-[Jeff Weaver](https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=2204402343213680&set=a.2073568279630421&type=3&theater)  ",Chartis,e9b1v94,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e9b30ly,SandersForPresident
As of 1:23 CST I think it’s officially heading to a recount,rangel904,e9b5r2o,SandersForPresident
"[https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/contacts/frequently-asked-questions/faq-voting/](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/contacts/frequently-asked-questions/faq-voting/)

Section 5 on this page.",S3lvah,e9at9k6,SandersForPresident
"Google says that DeSantis was at 49.6% versus Gillum's 49.2%. They are within .5% difference, and DeSantis is not over 50%. Doesn't this mean that it will go into a runoff election? ",Rsanta7,e9bk89m,SandersForPresident
If you count the votes he didn't get from GOP voter suppression he already won.,saul2015,e9brlhf,SandersForPresident
"Hope he wins. Still not a fan of how he started on the left, then when he got the nomination, he pivoted to the center. Again, hope he wins, but I wish he didn't abandon his original.",huskman,e9b0jtu,SandersForPresident
"ok, everyone, start phone calling everyone you know in florida, and then telling to call everyone they know. Let's make this recount happen.",Zincoshine_2018,e9b7sf3,SandersForPresident
thank you for posting this,4now5now6now,e9az01z,SandersForPresident
"Yeah you’re gonna lose in Red Florida when you run with Hillary Clinton and DWS. Gillum was ahead when he was campaigning with Bernie in the primaries, then he lost because he stopped championing for M4A and progressive issues. 

There’s no doubt in my mind that there was some kind of fuckery in a lot of these races, specifically in Georgia, California and Florida(and probably lots of places). But we  need to be honest with ourselves and understand that Gillum, Nelson and the like would have destroyed DeSantis and his kin had they ran populist campaigns all the way through. ",TheMediocreCock,e9bgyin,SandersForPresident
Recounts in Florida haven't bode well in the past. But boy do I hope this time would be different.,irishteacup,e9bij0x,SandersForPresident
Did y’all see Rick Scott claiming rampant fraud in the FL election also? SMH. We know it’s bull shit,ICA2015,e9ccx8g,SandersForPresident
"If there's a republican involved with counting votes in any close race, you can bet there is cheating going on.",RukaJeeze,e9b8vs7,SandersForPresident
"I never been so proud to vote for a candidate for governor in my life.

Florida is a unique state and I hope they wise up soon.",zap2,e9br3zj,SandersForPresident
"Why the hell did he give a concession speech ?

Edit: For people saying it is not legally binding. That's true. But it does have an impact. Wonder how many voters who had to drop provisional ballots didn't bother to follow up after the concession. It's just a very poor decision to make that concession speech.",JetsFanInDenver,e9b3kgo,SandersForPresident
*Is pleased in Floridian*,BillowyCurtains13,e9cqgym,SandersForPresident
"I hope this recount highlights the corruption in Broward county. 

Somehow DWS is the most popular Democrat in the entire state of Florida. And people there voted for her but not the governor... 

She was seen campaigning with the person in charge of the election there. Just insane. ",StockmanBaxter,e9csxwg,SandersForPresident
Oh Florida when will you guys be able to count properly?,Bulldogmadhav,e9ct7ai,SandersForPresident
Bruh,visibleroot,e9ctmb5,SandersForPresident
Recount....yeah voting is totally fair. The fact recounts have to be done tell you how fucked the system is.,ProCasualGamer,e9bbnjc,SandersForPresident
Well this is illegal,NoDrugZone,e9cl8jq,SandersForPresident
"That’s less than half my high school. I don’t have any seniors to encourage to vote, but I hope they were by my colleagues. ",glitterhairdye,e9bcjc9,SandersForPresident
"1640 votes... to trigger a recount. At which time the likeliest outcome is that they confirm the original vote. Such that, as usual, a single vote doesn't really ""count"" except in the rare circumstance that an election is actually decided by only one vote. And even then, due to a ridiculous electoral system and gerrymandering, some votes genuinely do count even less than others, depending on where the voter lives.

I'm not telling anyone not to vote, but I also cringe at the rhetoric that it's the *most* useful thing people can do to improve their country. It just isn't. If your only political activity in 2 years were to cast a single ballot, that would be only a minuscule contribution. If you neglected to vote, but instead you spent your free time volunteering, protesting, collecting signatures, calling representatives, etc., you would make much more of a net impact.

Again, lest anyone accuse me, I'm not saying ""don't vote."" But if you don't focus on other things, you can easily end up complacent and overall ineffectual while still patting yourself on the back and thinking you've ""done your part.""",principalstenger,e9bgszy,SandersForPresident
"They really do appoint who they want. Votes really are just a sham. I mean, that's pretty obvious now.",RockitMane,e9ctmb3,SandersForPresident
Yep.,Incruentus,e9bei2z,SandersForPresident
"Given that Kemp purged over a MILLION voters from the rolls during his tenure, this is pretty much a given.

Then again, if elections (including campaign finance) were fair, the Republican party of today would be a fringe group with <1% support. They're cold, cynical, amoral people who only care about being the political arm of the ruling class. Every measure of voter suppression is just a bonus percentage of the vote share in their thinking. The stolen agency of the voters doesn't negatively affect their bottom line, so it doesn't matter to them.",S3lvah,e9b9let,SandersForPresident
What a world we live in. We're relying on a million convicted felons to out vote the country's racist grandmas.,MoistPockets,e9bhons,SandersForPresident
Not to those convicted of murder or sex crimes. I’m curious what percentage of that 1.4 million number that is.,bigchicago04,e9cambu,SandersForPresident
"John Faso, too, but it's not a big story because he lost.",explodedsun,e9bb4su,SandersForPresident
Thank you for this!,S3lvah,e9b9aa2,SandersForPresident
"Looks like it! I wish it went up to 0.25% range for a manual recount, since the machines are barely more trustworthy than POTUS45, but it's better than nothing.",S3lvah,e9ba2n7,SandersForPresident
Im not sure that is law in florida. In georgia yes but not sure there.,Junkyardspecial,e9bo75m,SandersForPresident
"I definitely wouldn't say he went to the center. He softened his rhetoric to appeal to centrists, sure, but his platform was always very left wing.",8Bitsblu,e9b9fkm,SandersForPresident
He's still very much a progressive candidate and he has to because only staunch progressivism can be a winning platform for the left as the midterms have proven. I just think he's just choosing his words more carefully without actually abandoning his original agenda. ,happysisyphos,e9bf0zb,SandersForPresident
"Yeah when he pulled m4a from his website and started campaigning with Clinton you knew he was pivoting to the center. 

Which does not work now. 

",StockmanBaxter,e9ct1ni,SandersForPresident
Wut? Why do you think phone calls have anything to do with this? There is legislation on the books with instructions for a recount.,etherealcaitiff,e9budyq,SandersForPresident
"Nelson just needed to run a campaign, any kind of campaign.  Nelson's slogan: ""If we can work together, we can get a lot done."" Seriously? That's your lame-ass slogan in a knife fight of a campaign? Do you even know who's president? Amateur hour.

It's amazing it was as close as it was. If DeSantis wasn't such an obvious slimy shithead he would have crushed Nelson by double digits.",The_Original_Gronkie,e9bli1j,SandersForPresident
"Plus the fact that every recent FL Governor's race has been won by Republicans by a % or two, time after time. And Bush won in 2000 by like 500 votes. It's starting to be statistically ludicrous.",S3lvah,e9ba5aj,SandersForPresident
Just the fact that it was this close is promising. ,ktek01,e9c8pxg,SandersForPresident
I agree.  Why did he concede?,ester4brook,e9b78ba,SandersForPresident
The weakness is infuriating! Gore WON Florida and his cowardice to social stigmas cost us irreparable damage. Follow the protocols we already have in place and fight for better ones.,jmblock2,e9bpnkv,SandersForPresident
Because he lost by 30k+ votes. We don't have to contest every election that doesn't go our way. ,Rygards,e9c2cnl,SandersForPresident
"No, it’s a reflection of a democratic system. ",lionmom,e9bldjg,SandersForPresident
What's illegal?,rockmanj,e9cu8yz,SandersForPresident
"It might not be the most useful thing a PERSON can do, but voting and electing good leaders can absolutely be the best thing a PEOPLE can do. 

You're missing the point of the every vote counts rhetoric. It's identical to the every bottle you recycle matters rhetoric. Only by every individual doing the act suggested can we become a PEOPLE doing the act which is what makes the difference.  

Get it?",dougan25,e9bn2r0,SandersForPresident
"Damn dude, how dense are you? The collective idea that your vote doesn't matter is a self fulfilling prophecy. If everyone thinks that, fewer people vote. If everyone thinks their vote counts, more people vote. The singular vote is being read by you too literally, context matters. ",TRIPITIS,e9c4erg,SandersForPresident
There is a House district in my state of Illinois that is currently separated by 1 vote.  https://www.nbcchicago.com/blogs/ward-room/Illinois-House-Race-Separated-by-1-Vote-499932961.html,thetripleb,e9cbxli,SandersForPresident
"They don’t count some categories of ballots unless a recount is triggered. Many provisional ballots, international ballots, and mailed in ballots will now be counted for the first time.

Don’t ask me why this is how it works. It’s pretty stupid. I think it’s because they figure there aren’t enough of those ballots to make a difference unless it’s super close, so they don’t put the extra effort into counting them at first.

So if you think international and provisional ballots are more likely to go to Gillum, the outcome might change.",KablooieKablam,e9cctxc,SandersForPresident
"You aren’t saying don’t vote but you are discouraging people from voting which, if you want them to vote, is a stupid thing to do.  Please.  Stop.",pr0nh0und,e9cd0l1,SandersForPresident
"Does calling representatives do anything? Unless you have big lobbying dollars I honestly dont think they give a fuck. 

I've called a few times to my own and it didn't do a damn thing. Just had them spit the party line back at me.",BaaaBaaaBlackSheep,e9bqkev,SandersForPresident
"Cynical, but true. Sadly.",mischiffmaker,e9bdz7q,SandersForPresident
"Felons who have served their sentence, though. Isn't the entire point of a sentence that afterwards you are considered to have done your time, to have paid for your offense? I'm still not sure why Americans are in favour of taking away voting rights from citizens. Wouldn't making felons second class citizens create the circumstances for them to commit more crimes? ",Zygomatico,e9bjtmp,SandersForPresident
"Ex felons who sold pot.
Rapists and murderers I think are excluded.",negima696,e9c621v,SandersForPresident
"It's more like 1.2 million voting rights restored. That aside those convicted of violent and sexual crimes DO NOT get their voting rights restored, at all. They were very clear with the language when we voted here in Florida. It also passed with 76-78% approval from citizens statewide. ",Mumblellama,e9ce044,SandersForPresident
"NY19 here! Faso could have called out any of the campaign ads, but just didn't (similar to how he didn't show up for town halls or didn't want anyone in his office). The radio stations in the area stopped airing the soundbytes and commercials because they got so many complaints and also agreed that they were racist! ",Pepper005,e9bdow6,SandersForPresident
It's actually 0.5%,musicotic,e9bdokn,SandersForPresident
"Oh, it’s too bad to hear that :/.",Rsanta7,e9bqgrn,SandersForPresident
"He abandoned M4A. Like, even half of Republican voters support that. I think that was the moment he doomed himself.",molecularbioguy,e9bmr6h,SandersForPresident
"No need anymore, recount range reached!

Unfortunately, I see the chance of gillum winning a recount at almost zero. Nelson on the other hand has a real chance because he reached the 0.25 range that includes a re-evaluation of invalid ballots which tend to be democrats too stupid to figure out how to use a ballot. I give him a 45% chance of winning the recount.

If Sinema and Nelson ultimately prevail, then this is a huge victory because it means that it's very possible to win back the senate in 2020. Just 3 seats needed!",Zincoshine_2018,e9ccma9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e9bncqh,SandersForPresident
"I don't know, but it's not legally binding. Means nothing. There will be a recount now, so we should hope for the best.",BopTheDrass,e9b7ggw,SandersForPresident
"If it looks like you're going to lose, a decent concession speech can be good for your brand - especially if national media carry it before everyone goes to sleep on election night. It's a final chance to get your vision and values across, before people stop paying attention to you for awhile.",internetonsetadd,e9b9dy7,SandersForPresident
A recount probably wasn't even on his mind at the time.,Apoplectic1,e9biyri,SandersForPresident
">We don't have to contest every election that doesn't go our way.

Not every election that doesn't go our way, but every election in which the votes of thousands of eligible voters have not been counted.
And that is the case in Florida:

https://www.motherjones.com/politics/2018/11/signature-matching-florida-absentee-ballots/

And in Georgia:

https://truthout.org/articles/purged-voters-provisional-ballots-could-decide-georgia-governor-race/

https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/11/georgia-governor-kemp-abrams/575095/
",horstenporst,e9chpon,SandersForPresident
"It also takes almost no time to do.

Aside from the shitty places that do their best to suppress voters. ",TheVermonster,e9cynln,SandersForPresident
"It's funny you bring up recycling / environmentalism, where the popular rhetoric characterizes the problem as something that needs to be solved by millions of individuals each doing their part, and implies that failure to fix the problem is a personal failure of those individuals, when in reality, even *all* the rational individuals in the world working together can't actually achieve their goals due to overwhelming opposition from selfish and ignorant people in positions of unassailable power - and those poor peasants aren't really responsible for the problem in the first place anyhow. It *is* a similar situation.

I guess calling attention to that fact only inspires cynicism and even more voter apathy than usual, so I should avoid saying it in public, but I have a hard time not telling the truth.",principalstenger,e9c5pqh,SandersForPresident
"But how do you vote for ""good"" leaders when they are all bad?",RockitMane,e9ctqb5,SandersForPresident
"Many people believe and propagate lots of untruths and half truths with the best of intentions - to make themselves and their loved ones brave and kind and happy and healthy. And you're right: this is a truth that, pragmatically, ought not be shouted from the rooftops. But I stand by the truth of every word I said.",principalstenger,e9c60xg,SandersForPresident
Wtf they don't even count all of the ballots? The majority of the international ones will most certainly go to a Dem...,RiotingTypewriter,e9cvwpv,SandersForPresident
"Yes.  

1. [I was both the receptionist for my Senator’s office and also one of two people who handled all the incoming phone traffic to the office... When you call Congress, you’re one of tens of thousands of people participating in the critical democratic process](https://mondaybazaarblog.com/2017/09/06/how-to-call-your-senator/)  

2. It shapes who you are, how you think, and strengthens your voice & influence like exercise. That in turn resonate & works its way into everyday culture, impacting through emergence. It's part of Humanity's ancient wisdom tradition:  
 * The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are healthy, your whole body will be full of light. -Matthew 6:22
 * It is out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. -Luke 6:45  


3. >The American public actually have little influence [note: not none] over the policies our government adopts... both individual economic elites and **organized interest groups play a substantial part in affecting public policy.**

 -[Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens]( https://scholar.princeton.edu/sites/default/files/mgilens/files/gilens_and_page_2014_-testing_theories_of_american_politics.doc.pdf
), Sept 2014    

Example: H.R.676 [Before](https://i.imgur.com/pgU7zcI.jpg) & [After](https://i.imgur.com/IpKBiE3.png) they were pressed. And we also saw similar results in regards to the Medicare For All caucus. Both of which *you* can be a part of advancing: [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9vbij8/no_need_to_wait_newly_elected_reps_can_join_the/) & [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9v0sja/heres_why_the_gop_is_really_terrified_of_medicare/e99j79j/)  

>We are going to pass a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program.

-Bernie, [June 23^rd '18](https://youtu.be/CquyXLTiu98?t=124)  

When depends on you.",Chartis,e9bu87q,SandersForPresident
"Meet with your representative. This is fairly easy if you start volunteering. I had several productive conversations with my old Rep Scott Peters in CA. I was able to do that because I volunteered, eventually started donating money, and hosting meetings for him in my neighborhood.",moosic,e9ct9qx,SandersForPresident
"You're right. I don't genuinely expect that to do anything either. But if that doesn't work, and voting doesn't work, then what? Violent revolution? I don't fancy the odds of that. So maybe activism is marginally better than nothing, and at least couldn't hurt. I don't know. Personally, my ideal plan would be to flee the country, if I can manage it somehow.",principalstenger,e9c4jxw,SandersForPresident
How is that cynical?  It's the truth.,powercorruption,e9bx0se,SandersForPresident
"I don't think it's being cynical, just realistic. The Republican ideology leads them to an entirely different world view, one that is antithetical to American values and democracy. 

Literally if they win, America's democracy will be destroyed.",mypasswordismud,e9bwfdy,SandersForPresident
"> I'm still not sure why Americans are in favour of taking away voting rights from citizens. Wouldn't making felons second class citizens create the circumstances for them to commit more crimes? 

This is demonstrably, provably true.",boyuber,e9bnn6m,SandersForPresident
"> Wouldn't making felons second class citizens create the circumstances for them to commit more crimes? 

It's another suppression tactic. If people can't participate and in effect become 2nd class citizens, then there's no reason for them to rise up to a better station in life and possibly take power away from those who have it.",Brewer846,e9cabqh,SandersForPresident
I couldn't believe that they were running those the first time I saw one. Then Faso didn't say a word against it and I ceased to be surprised. ,Brewer846,e9ca8r3,SandersForPresident
"0.5% for machine recount, 0.25% for manual recount – is it not?",S3lvah,e9bi6hq,SandersForPresident
M4A? Like the file extension?,fu11m3ta1,e9bvd5h,SandersForPresident
He did? I saw TV ads where he mentioned healthcare as a right. I understand he changed his language for the campaign but I’m not sure he abandoned M4A.,baleko,e9cjdji,SandersForPresident
"> He abandoned M4A

Deal breaker. Sorry for those who don't see the significance of that, but it's very unfortunate and reveals his true colors. This coupled with his connections to PFAW and through PFAW to Soros and Podesta...Gillum disappointed me greatly the more I dug into him. ",bradok,e9brhx9,SandersForPresident
"Hi `stiffie2fakie`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9vbl5r/-/e9bncqh/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

This is being removed for conspiracy. The rules define conspiracy as:

> Any claim that is comprised solely of speculation and for which there is no evidence to suggest, either directly or indirectly, that the claim is feasible.

Please read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting something similar.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e9bqzqi,SandersForPresident
That is beside the point. ,JetsFanInDenver,e9bs4ku,SandersForPresident
"No, actually, you've just revealed from two different angles that you don't think we should address a problem unless we can be 100% guaranteed of a total solution on the first try.",TheChance,e9cjr01,SandersForPresident
"You are correct that one, individual vote will never effect an election as a whole. 
However, you forget that the action of voting is very rarely an individual action that merely causes a single effect. Look at it this way; lets say you vote, and in doing so you impart the importance of voting to just 5 of your friends and convince them that they need to vote. You explain how important elections are, how they are the staple of our republic, and how we as Americans have a civic duty to take part in our political system. So now, we have 6 people voting (including yourself). Lets say that your five friends, in turn, convince five others to vote. Suddenly you have 26 votes cast. Then the cycle continues. And it all of that began because one individual cast their ballot and convinced others to do the same. Politics (and by extension voting, as it the core of what makes a democratic republic) is rarely if ever an individual event. The concept of “politics” only occurs when groups of people get together and work towards a common goal. Your theory/idea that the act of an individual voting ends with the ballot being counted isnt realistic. Furthermore, in the state of NC (my home state) in the 2016 election, there was a state judge who lost his race by only 300 votes. Had enough individuals felt the desire to vote and seen the importance, then the entire judicial system of a district could have been incredibly different

Also, you are horribly incorrect when you say that other political actions (ie, calling representatives, rallying, etc...) are more important than voting. Those actions only matter when they lead to voting. You could have 1 million individuals contact their representatives, but if they do not vote then it means absolutely nothing. I am saying this as someone who has gone to rallies, who does call their representatives, and who is very politically active. Voting is the single most important act a citizen can provide for their country, because it is the only peaceful action a citizen can take to truly enact change. if you call your rep and tell them you dont vote, then they will not listen to a single thing you are saying, because you are removing yourself from the democratic process

Cynicism does not entail truth. The fact that you are espousing an unpopular opinion does not mean that you are right. It just means that you disagree with people. 
A single spark thrown into tinder can cause effects that lead to a forest fire. Similarly, a single vote can wield the influence to change an election",iamjohnnyringo1,e9cj29y,SandersForPresident
The truth is often cynical.,Rivertold,e9cmfcf,SandersForPresident
"My hope is always for kindness and ethical behavior. It's always sad to acknowledge, as u/s3lvah did,

> They're cold, cynical, amoral people who only care about being the political arm of the ruling class.

It's absolutely correct, though.",mischiffmaker,e9crmoh,SandersForPresident
"""BUT MUH PROFITS!""

~Prison Industry, probably",ToastedSoup,e9cmsri,SandersForPresident
Oh mb,musicotic,e9bzg3x,SandersForPresident
Medicare For All,nullstorm0,e9bwcq6,SandersForPresident
“Healthcare as a right” is the weak liberal way of saying expanding some public access like Obamacare did but not M4A,mclairy,e9crb2g,SandersForPresident
He didn't abandon Medicare for All and you're pulling the classic guilt by association tactic to discredit progressives. You're the one falling for propaganda.,ParadigmacticPassion,e9c2hls,SandersForPresident
Good think Desantis so much more progressive than Gillum on the rest of the issues. ,steaky13,e9bw56u,SandersForPresident
"I tried to ride a bike and fell

Guess ill never ride one ever. Also, let me tell everyone i see learning to ride a bike that its useless to even try. Theres no use. Go ahead and try if you want, but youll fail",Luis0224,e9ct98y,SandersForPresident
"> you're pulling the classic guilt by association tactic to discredit progressives

Lol. No, I'm not. But it's interesting how much of a push back there is  when one isn't all in for the lesser of two evils argument. And I'm not here ""discrediting progressives"". I've been a part of this community for quite some time now and I am merely expressing my thoughts on the matter.

> You're the one falling for propaganda

Aight. ",bradok,e9c2p07,SandersForPresident
Lesser of two evils will never get us anywhere. Why reward either party? The establishment Dems are gonna keep fucking us as long as they keep getting voted into power. We've got to draw the line somewhere. I wish you could see that. ,bradok,e9bwjv1,SandersForPresident
"I never said anything about lesser of two evils. There was only one evil in this race. But I know your type and you're not gonna budge one inch. I have no interest in people like you. You may not realize it, but you clearly are not taking climate change seriously which is an issue that dwarfs every other issue in importance. And I don't want to waste my time on people that are forming circular firing squads on the people that are our only chance at combating climate change, because I think that they are the minority and most people don't buy into it. Sorry to direct this at you. Kinda venting.",ParadigmacticPassion,e9c3dd0,SandersForPresident
"Yea, I guess de santis is going to implement all that great progressive policy. Or he’ll really set up progressives to win with his blue friendly gerrymandered districts in 2020. 

",steaky13,e9bxixz,SandersForPresident
"Voting third party or not voting doesn't work either.

Long-term I agree with you.

Short-term? Voting Dem is damage control and a temporary measure while you simultaneously work on systemic change like electoral reforms (ranked choice or other voting), antigerrymandering, etc. And dual action. Working outside the government system by creating alternatives to problems (Mastodon instead of Facebook), tenant unions and other organizing, long terms structures like coops, and so on.

Voting Dem in the short term isn't a problem, most of us in here see it as a necessity. ONLY voting Dem, and not doing anything else, that's a problem.

Look at AZ's senate race. Enough people voted Green that it spoiled the election. Now they'll have an R senator. Spoiler effect is real. Anyone doing what you are doing here, encouraging leftists in battleground districts to not vote Dem (in the short term), should be treated like someone encouraging folks to vote R... because they functionally have the same outcome.",molecularbioguy,e9c33qv,SandersForPresident
"I mean, didn’t the shitshow since Trump was elected kind of prove you wrong? Just look at Trump filling our courts with his picks, with Republicans approving them quickly. That’s long term damage right there. Lesser of two evils, if you choose to think of it like that, makes complete sense. ",foolishbeat,e9cxcry,SandersForPresident
"> There was only one evil in this race

Establishment Dems are nefarious in how they hide their evil.

> I have no interest in people like you.

Okes.

> You may not realize it, but you clearly are not taking climate change seriously which is an issue that dwarfs every other issue in importance

Oh I do take it seriously. But I also realize that Establishment dems don't *actually* give a shit about it. And will continue using this as a wedge issue to unify the base and vote them back into power, so that they can continue ignoring the rest of the agenda because ""CLIMATE CHANGE"". We've got to play hardball here, which is what many seem to be missing- and the downvotes so clearly indicate.

> And I don't want to waste my time on people that are forming circular firing squads on the people that are our only chance at combating climate change,

These people are going to destroy this country and not do shit about the Climate because they know it's the perfect issue to guilt people like you into voting for them.

> Sorry to direct this at you. Kinda venting.

It should be clear by now that I don't really feel bad about the anger and frustration directed my way. I'm just trying to make a point. I think that your approach is critically flawed- the Establishment needs to be *discredited*, and the only way that happens is if they *lose*. This is a zero sum game- and it's time we fought like it. ",bradok,e9cszl5,SandersForPresident
"You really are stuck in the propaganda my friend. I hope more of the Left wakes up from this fever dream they, and yourself, seem to be so hopelessly trapped in. 

Your strategy won't bring change. Neither will holding the scary Republicans over our heads. Establishment Dems are gonna keep fucking us just as hard. But please, keep pretending that choosing the slightly less stinky pile of shit somehow makes it *not* shit. Because that's *totally* how you change the world. ",bradok,e9byl9t,SandersForPresident
"As I said above- the Establishment needs to be discredited in order for us to take over the Party. The only way that happens is if we stick to our guns and vote only *True* Progressive, and reject the idea of lesser of two evils. This is a zero sum game and we need to act like it. 

> Anyone doing what you are doing here, encouraging leftists in battleground districts to not vote Dem (in the short term), should be treated like someone encouraging folks to vote R... because they functionally have the same outcome.

That's very untrue. It's actually the harder decision to avoid voting for the Establishment but it's the one that needs to be made. You say ""short term"", but don't you realize there will *always* be another issue to make you vote for Establishment dems just ""one more time""? We will never get out of this mess with that mentality. We have to *break* them. And that means not voting for them.",bradok,e9ct5d3,SandersForPresident
"That's the trap. Establishment Dems will still destroy this country- they just do it in a more controlled and hidden fashion. That's how they keep you voting them into power. Change will never come if we reward these corrupt fools with high office. 

They don't deserve your vote. And they will always keep slinking back into power as long as we play by their own rules. This country doesn't have the luxury of time to keep prolonging the agony of the D/R charade. This is what I'm trying to say. ",bradok,e9d2ooj,SandersForPresident
"Oh yea I’m stuck in the propaganda, while your the smart one who sees past it. That terrible propaganda that convinces me I’d rather have a Democrat than a climate denier, who’s whole messaging campaign is backing trump. 

No I’m not being fucked I like Gillum , and his positions. And even if I didn’t I would vote over de santis, who I don’t agree anything with. 

Your the one who just rolls in the shit instead of trying to clean it up because it doesn’t just disappear all at once. ",steaky13,e9bz4oi,SandersForPresident
"> Oh yea I’m stuck in the propaganda, while your the smart one who sees past it

Nah, I'm not the only one. But it's unfortunate too many are stuck there.

> That terrible propaganda that convinces me I’d rather have a Democrat than a climate denier

A Democrat at all costs! Doesn't matter what they really stand for! They've got a ""D"" next to their name! They're on *my* side! Lol...

> No I’m not being fucked I like Gillum , and his positions. And even if I didn’t I would vote over de santis, who I don’t agree anything with.

You like his abandoning of M4A? His moving to the center? His connections to Soros and Podesta? You poor soul. Funny also that you imply I somehow voted for DeSantis as well...lol...

> Your the one who just rolls in the shit instead of trying to clean it up because it doesn’t just disappear all at once.

No, and I think you realize that isn't True. It's the harder choice to make sure we are only supporting principled Progressives and not settling for lesser of two evils. You are playing right into the Establishments hands and will inevitably help to destroy this movement in doing so. But keep having fun in lala land. 

",bradok,e9bzhoy,SandersForPresident
"It isn't just young men. It's conservatives of all ages. My father, and several of my coworkers are the same way. Saying things like McCain was executed for treason, and the keto diet increases your frequency. WTF does that even mean!?",sublimeone,e9cui7h,SandersForPresident
"As long as there are hopeless young men, there will be extremists.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e9ct618,SandersForPresident
"I'm pretty sure the ~~gun nuts~~ firearm enthusiasts who actually collect arsenals also like to show them to friends in person.  There are many strong arguments for the nation to reverse Ronald Reagan's hostility to mental health care, and reducing mass shootings is certainly one of them.  Still, given the nature of the hobby, I'm pretty sure there is still plenty of face-to-face groupthink happening alongside whatever Facebook archvillainy is at work here.",Demonweed,e9crdu6,SandersForPresident
It's means they've starved their brains of the carbohydrates they need to be normal.,elttobretaweneglan,e9cvi44,SandersForPresident
"> I'm pretty sure the gun nuts firearm enthusiasts who actually collect arsenals also like to show them to friends in person.

I don't know that ""firearm enthusiasts/gun nuts"" is how I would describe most of the mass shooters. Certainly some -- Las Vegas for example. But this is certainly much more substantial connective tissue among these cases than number of guns owned. 

Also, you can have in-person friends and feel a sense of community and still be socially isolated. ""The Proud Boys"" or whatever they are calling themselves this week are certainly an example of that being possible. ",outlawyer11,e9culjy,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e9cuq8e,SandersForPresident
What are the proud boys?,Meandmystudy,e9cv4us,SandersForPresident
"What happens if you apply that logic to the American Revolution?

Edit: Because sometimes peace isn't about your ability to compromise, but your capacity to resist aggression. American Revolution is a poor example, rich white landowners upset about distant rich white king, but it offers at least one example of where the need to be armed superceded peace.",Zaicheek,e9cwcne,SandersForPresident
"[White nationalist failsons acting tough, occasionally killing people, more often getting rinsed in shit they start.](https://twitter.com/BoyBoiiAT/status/1041760817484627969)

Just normal guy stuff.",Andy1816,e9cykaw,SandersForPresident
A very bad cartoon. ,outlawyer11,e9cvuph,SandersForPresident
They're a neo-nazi group who engage in violent street fighting and such. ,Rvb321,e9czowo,SandersForPresident
"**The comment I responded to had been deleted by the time I finished this, so I'm posting it here, so my effort won't go to waste**

>When having weapons is a higher priority than having peace, you no longer deserve to own weapons.

To expand on /u/Zaicheek's comment, there's nothing peaceful about letting yourself get rolled over. Unfortunately, sometimes violence is a road to peace, as counter-intuitive as that might initially sound.

For example, let's look at a current example: [Rojava](https://youtu.be/gqfoJvD0Ifg) - Out of the ashes of ISIS occupation, and threats from almost every other faction in the Syrian Civil War, The Kurdish majority region of Rojava, in northern Syria, has been waging a violent Revolution to secure their autonomy. The people of Rojava have established there a system that is Democratic, Socialist, feminist, multi-ethnic, and secular. 

This could not have been achieved by ""valuing peace over weapons"". If you want peace, sometimes you have to fight for it.

 I'm not saying that you need an armory of guns in your home, far from it, what I am saying is that groups of people who are subject to disproportionate violence, either from the state, or from private power (ie corporations), have both the right, and the moral imperative to defend themselves, their families, and their communities. 

Often when people on the right talk about ""self defense"",  it's spoken of in the abstract and used merely as an excuse to carry a big gun around. I don't want to fall into that, so I'm going to compare two real world situations that are fairly similar. 

1. Standing Rock - The Standing Rock Sioux reservation in North Dakota was set to have an oil pipeline illegally built through it. It caused environmental concerns as well as concerns on how the pipeline would affect residents. Not wanting this pipeline to threaten their way of life and the environment, a coalition of native peoples, progressives, and environmental activists set up tents, and began peacefully protesting. As time went on, and the situation escalated, both state police forces, and private security hired by the oil company attacked and brutalized protesters,one if whom got their arm nearly blown off by a tear gas grenade. Between this brutality, a Harsh winter, and other factors, the protests couldn't continue, the tent city was ransacked by police, and the pipeline was built anyway. Standing Rock was a failure. 

2. [La ZAD](https://youtu.be/GDj5WY01o08) - The ZAD, or Zone to Defend in Notre-Dame-des-Landes, France, is the largest Autonomous zone in the whole of europe. It began in 2008, as a response to the proposed construction of an airport. Environmental concerns, coupled with local farmers who didn't want to give up their way of life, led to a coalition of farmers, progressive activists, and environmentalists occupying the land meant for the airport. The locals had used peaceful means previously with some success, but that model was beginning to outlive it's usefulness. By occupying the land, the people of the ZAD collectivized the farm land and cattle heards, set up organs of democracy, established co-op bakeries, a guerilla radio station, a childcare center, etc. Two major eviction attempts occurred in both 2010, and in 2018, when the French government sent riot police into the ZAD, to forcibly remove residents, and bulldoze dwellings. Both attempts were successfully fought off by the ZADists, because they were willing to use violence (though not nessecarily guns) to defend their newfound way of life. They hid in trees and pelted police with rocks, fired flare guns at them, set up strategic barricades, and coordinated via their guerilla radio station. The ZAD has been going strong for over a decade now, and has successfully gotten the airport project permenantly cancelled, and in doing so have forged a peaceful and democratic way of life, outside of control of the state or Capitalism. 

What made the ZAD a success where Standing Rock failed, was a willingness to fight for peace. Non violence is good, but only in certain circumstances. When the ZADists realized that nonviolence wasn't an option anymore, they adapted to the conditions they were faced with. Standing Rock's unwavering commitment to nonviolent protest, rather than a more radical,  transformative, long term occupation, while noble, is what led to its failure. ",Rvb321,e9d2hf0,SandersForPresident
From now on I intend to vote in every election. Should have done that a long time ago.,xxoites,e9c1klp,SandersForPresident
"Just a reminder for those who live in California that the Assembly District Delegate elections for the California Democratic Party are coming up in January.  Progressives won approximately 60% of the seats throughout all of California in 2017 and it was thought that this was enough to take over the California Democratic Party.  However, due to super delegates and other establishment shenanigans the party was able to keep Eric Bauman as the party chair.  In 2017 there was an app developed to help organize progressives throughout all of California to at least vote in these elections and also to help anyone who wanted to run.  I hope this organizing process is repeated in 2019 and that enough folks vote so that progressives take over the largest democratic state party in the nation.  I'm 99% sure I'm going to run for a seat (the only way I won't is if there is already enough stronger progressives ready to fill a full slate).  For those who would like more info on what occurred in the 2017 election please see the links below:

https://ourrevolution.com/press/our-revolution-california-assembly-district-election-results/

https://www.nationofchange.org/2017/01/26/battle-joined-lessons-2017-california-democratic-adems/",Antarctica-1,e9cbmk5,SandersForPresident
"* [The essence of it](https://i.imgur.com/tXc6sxM.jpg)  
* [We're coming for our country](https://i.imgur.com/FizePb1.jpg)  
* [Politics as usual will not be successful](https://i.imgur.com/c9sOI64.jpg)  
* [How change happens](https://i.imgur.com/t7lHE8p.jpg)  
* [Not me, us.](https://i.imgur.com/0VJfUay.jpg)  
* [Spreading like wildfire](https://i.imgur.com/IjmkulM.jpg)  
* [Our invitation](https://i.imgur.com/omI3sPn.jpg)  
* [A good sign](https://i.imgur.com/WnaKVmK.jpg)  
* [The solution](https://i.imgur.com/BqKvMks.jpg)",Chartis,e9cik6r,SandersForPresident
How did she cost us gillum?,inthedollarbin,e9d1fy4,SandersForPresident
"Our Revolution published a summary of their wins from the 2018 Midterm Election.  78 of the 196 candidates endorsed by Our Revolution won their midterm election, which is approximately a 40% win rate.  41 of the ballot initiatives they endorsed also passed.",Antarctica-1,e9cc5tw,SandersForPresident
"Democrats must grow a spine, and stop moving incrementally to the right to appease Republicans. Pelosi is a rich establishment Dem, and a relic of the past. Our leadership must look forward to the new horizon, and press issues that will prove to voters that Republicans do not have their best intentions in mind.",SmokeyBare,e9cwkdh,SandersForPresident
I love how Berniecrats like Beto ,lapacheco7,e9cg4zm,SandersForPresident
Sanders O'Rourke 2020,OtisCherokee,e9cfy9m,SandersForPresident
Keep fighting and we will win! Bernie 2020!!!,TomBurcher,e9clxnr,SandersForPresident
This is gonna continue for a long-ass time.,St-4_backup,e9cshr7,SandersForPresident
Hope is not a plan.,dolphin_bunker,e9d1of9,SandersForPresident
The real reason the establishment has created a bogus controversy out of Bernie saying supportive things about Gillum and Abrams.,Greg06897,e9c7ubl,SandersForPresident
"so sketchy.. give to abrams, half of it goes to harris..50% commission for sharing stacey's outrage.

&#x200B;",rommelo,e9cn2sl,SandersForPresident
Where have we seen this before... ugh. It's kind of sad how Hillary's DNC money-funnel just fell out of public consciousness.,robotzor,e9d0xe7,SandersForPresident
">This year, more candidates than ever before campaigned on the idea that health care should be a right for every man, woman and child in this country, and not a privilege. The last poll I saw showed that Medicare for all is an idea supported by 70% of the American people. Medicare for all is an idea that's time has come. In this pivotal moment in American history, we must go forward to guarantee health care as a right and not a privilege.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/2002608626460798)",Chartis,e9c15vz,SandersForPresident
"Big picture: The Medicaid expansion has gone from covering fewer than half the states to covering almost four-fifths.

The lesson? When it comes to health care, voters value a program that is broad and simple. They want premiums and deductibles and other forms of cost-sharing to be minimized. And they'd rather avoid the grind of dealing with the insurance market. They just want security and reliability. That's the sort of policy they will reward at the polls.

That is, of course, a case for continuing to expand Medicaid. But it's also a case for Medicare-for-all, which would provide all those benefits to every single American voter.
 
https://theweek.com/articles/806261/why-medicareforall-looking-better-better-after-midterms",innovativedmm,e9ch3ih,SandersForPresident
"Nationwide Mueller protection protests are on at 5pm local time Thursday, November 8. Shit's getting real, folks: https://act.moveon.org/event/mueller-firing-rapid-response-events/search/

Thanks to /u/PoppinKREAM for additional context:

**Who is Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker? The new Acting AG has the all the authorities of an Attorney General, Deputy AG Rosenstein no longer oversees the Russia probe, Mueller must report to the Acting AG. The Acting AG can refuse to indict anyone and can defund the investigation.****

Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein was not appointed to the role of Acting Attorney General and Special Counsel Mueller will report to the new Acting AG as he is not recused from the Russia investigation. Jeff Session's Chief of Staff Matthew Whitaker has been appointed by President Trump to be the Acting Attorney General,^[[1]](https://www.wsj.com/articles/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-resigns-from-trump-white-house-1541619893) to reiterate he is not recused from the Russia investigation, will be receiving a complete briefing about the investigation from Rosenstein and will most likely interfere the Russia probe. Whitaker is a Trump supporter who has defended the infamous Trump Tower meeting claiming any campaign would have accepted a meeting with a foreign adversary during an election,^[[2]](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/11/07/trumps-acting-attorney-general-matthew-whitaker-will-take-over-mueller-probe-oversight-nbc-news.html) has attempted to obfuscate Russian interference,^[[3]](https://www.newsweek.com/matt-whitaker-rod-rosenstein-trump-fire-sessions-1140816) and has mused about defunding the Mueller investigation.^[[4]](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/12/trumps-potential-new-attorney-general-once-mused-about-choking-off-robert-muellers-funds/?utm_term=.1c2c98d7b7d5) Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker wrote an opinion piece denouncing Special Counsel Mueller claiming the investigation was going too far.^[[5]](https://www.cnn.com/2017/08/06/opinions/rosenstein-should-curb-mueller-whittaker-opinion/index.html) 

>Last month, when President Donald Trump was asked by The New York Times if special counsel Robert Mueller would be crossing a line if he started investigating the financesof Trump and his family, the President said,""I think that's a violation. Look, this is about Russia.""

>The President is absolutely correct. Mueller has come up to a red line in the Russia 2016 election-meddling investigation that he is dangerously close to crossing.

However, Special Counsel's purview includes any crimes discovered upon their investigation into Russia's interference.^[[6]](https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3726381/Robert-Mueller-Special-Counsel-Russia.pdf)



**Context - Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions' Recusal from the Russia investigation and the Appointment of Special Counsel Mueller**

Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions resigned at the request of the President and in an unusual move his Chief of Staff was appointed as Acting Attorney General.^[[7]](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/us-politics/article-us-attorney-general-jeff-sessions-resigns-at-trumps-request/)

President Trump has repeatedly denigrated his former Attorney General for not doing enough to protect the President from the investigation and has gone as far as to ask Sessions to fire Mueller publicly.^[[8]](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1024646945640525826) However, former Attorney General Sessions was forced to recuse himself from the Russia investigation,^[[9]](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/mueller-investigated-sessions-for-perjury-on-russia-statements) he met Russian Ambassador Kislyak during the 2016 campaign.^[[10]](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia-convention/mueller-probing-russia-contacts-at-republican-convention-sources-idUSKBN1H52VT) AG Sessions cited *Title 28, Chapter 1, Section 45.2 of the Code of Federal Regulation, titled ""Disqualification arising from personal or political relationship""* as the reason as to why he recused himself from the Russia investigation.^[[11]](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/28/45.2) Deputy AG Rod Rosenstein took over the Russia inquiry and subsequently appointed Special Counsel Mueller.^[[12]](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/appointment-special-counsel) Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is a Republican, who appointed former FBI Director and Republican Robert Mueller as Special Counsel and was lauded by the Republican party,^[[13]](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/05/17/rare-bipartisan-moment-both-sides-embrace-robert-mueller-special-counsel/101810310/) Rosenstein was nominated by President Trump.^[[14]](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-justice-deputy/trump-to-nominate-rod-rosenstein-to-be-deputy-u-s-attorney-general-idUSKBN15G2ZS)

__________

1) [Wall Street Journal - Attorney General Jeff Sessions Resigns from Trump White House](https://www.wsj.com/articles/attorney-general-jeff-sessions-resigns-from-trump-white-house-1541619893)

2) [CNBC - Trump's Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, who has criticized the Mueller probe, will now oversee it](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/11/07/trumps-acting-attorney-general-matthew-whitaker-will-take-over-mueller-probe-oversight-nbc-news.html)

3) [Newsweek - Who is Matthew Whitaker? If Trump fires Rosenstein, Jeff Sessions' Chief of Staff will take over](https://www.newsweek.com/matt-whitaker-rod-rosenstein-trump-fire-sessions-1140816)

4) [Washington Post - Trump’s new acting attorney general once mused about defunding Mueller](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/12/trumps-potential-new-attorney-general-once-mused-about-choking-off-robert-muellers-funds/?utm_term=.1c2c98d7b7d5)

5) [CNN - Mueller's investigation of Trump is going too far](https://www.cnn.com/2017/08/06/opinions/rosenstein-should-curb-mueller-whittaker-opinion/index.html)

6) [Office of the Deputy Attorney General - Appointment of Special Counsel To Investigate Russian Interference With The 2016 Presidential Election and Related Matters](https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3726381/Robert-Mueller-Special-Counsel-Russia.pdf)

7) [The Globe and Mail - U.S. Attorney-General Jeff Sessions resigns at Trump’s request](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/us-politics/article-us-attorney-general-jeff-sessions-resigns-at-trumps-request/)

8) [Twitter - Donald J. Trump, *This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!*](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1024646945640525826)

9) [Bloomberg - Mueller Investigated Sessions for Perjury on Russia Statements](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-03-21/mueller-investigated-sessions-for-perjury-on-russia-statements)

10) [Reuters - Mueller probing Russia contacts at Republican convention: sources](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-russia-convention/mueller-probing-russia-contacts-at-republican-convention-sources-idUSKBN1H52VT)

11) [Cornell Law School - 28 CFR 45.2 - Disqualification arising from personal or political relationship.](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/28/45.2)

12) [U.S. Department of Justice - Appointment of Special Counsel](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/appointment-special-counsel)

13) [USA Today - Rare bipartisan moment: Both sides embrace Robert Mueller as special counsel](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/05/17/rare-bipartisan-moment-both-sides-embrace-robert-mueller-special-counsel/101810310/)

14) [Reuters - Trump to nominate Rod Rosenstein to be deputy U.S. attorney general](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-justice-deputy/trump-to-nominate-rod-rosenstein-to-be-deputy-u-s-attorney-general-idUSKBN15G2ZS)",Ron_Jamon,e99f1vy,SandersForPresident
Its fucking go time. Let's show them how we handle traitors in America. ,Phoenix2700,e99bx7f,SandersForPresident
Share on your other social networks,thinkB4WeSpeak,e99h435,SandersForPresident
Is this the real launch? I haven't gotten an email yet. ,CTR0,e99fhdc,SandersForPresident
Im going in SF. lets make him recuse,razzac11,e99gkor,SandersForPresident
"Just got an email from the local Atlanta chapter. Protests have NOT been scheduled for Atlanta for tomorrow. They are meeting now and will send out another email.

There is major confusion apparently.

Edit: as soon as I post that, I get another email. Protests for Atlanta are a GO",zeusmeister,e99o2zb,SandersForPresident
[What say you?!](https://66.media.tumblr.com/23bfd8f6ebd4b0f647ab419a6ae20f26/tumblr_p9qup66hFc1wr9474o3_500.gif),Snowpossum,e99od58,SandersForPresident
"Checking in for Asbury, NJ.",conway1308,e99nkoh,SandersForPresident
Anyone have any clever sign ideas to carry at the protest?  ,Im_not_really_real,e99jcy7,SandersForPresident
"Why the fuck isn't Reddit buzzing with the news? I saw one post at the top of /r/all, and this one. This is BIG.",AFakeman,e99vink,SandersForPresident
CA checking in! See you there!! 🔥🔥🔥,iPadBob,e99mxie,SandersForPresident
So I work tmrw night and can't really call off.  Don't hate me everyone I support you all and hope for the best.  Maybe if the protest are going late into the night I can join.,CanoeShoes,e9a1stk,SandersForPresident
"I'll attend of course, but I'm not signing up... ",atheosuede,e99x0rn,SandersForPresident
"Great.

Where is the **Medicare for All** rapid RESPONSE TEAM?

The **Living Wages**  RESPONSE TEAM?

Where is the **End These Budget Destroying and Spirituality Killing Endless Wars** RESPONSE TEAM?

Where is the **Rural and Inner City Hospitals and Rural Internet** RESPONSE TEAM?

Where is the **National Hard Build & Solar and Energy Storage Infrastructure Bill** RESPONSE TEAM?

On and On and On   **BUT**  Lets focus on maybe three and build a coalition around Washington NATIONALLY for change.

",GMBoy,e9bm6x8,SandersForPresident
Any idea how big turnout will be for this?,plazmablu,e99gm0i,SandersForPresident
"Racine, WI checking in!",reject69187,e99plel,SandersForPresident
I have to work at that time...is there anything I can do to be in solidarity while I’m at work? I want to help be a part of it!,ZachyD94,e9awddw,SandersForPresident
I hope this makes a difference.,An-Innocent-Abroad,e9b3yb2,SandersForPresident
"So after this also does nothing, will y’all finally start talking about a general strike? ",dhrkanqp,e9a48ew,SandersForPresident
It says my local event is full. ,rathat,e99rnqj,SandersForPresident
Oh shit it’s up to us to protest until Jan 1,Skeetronic,e99u9cx,SandersForPresident
"Trash comment to boost exposure, please disregard.",rlegacy3rd,e99etqg,SandersForPresident
I did not receive my texts about this,dowhatchafeel,e9acum1,SandersForPresident
Imagine if all the people in here saying they're going to attend a protest over this attended a protest in support of progressive policies. That would be amazing. Instead all this energy is being co-opted for a useless protest over something that most people don't care about. Seeing this is depressing.,Grizzly_Madams,e9bxu2w,SandersForPresident
The NY one is at Times Square... At 5pm. I'm gonna get some popcorn ( I work in midtown),rental99,e9a56lp,SandersForPresident
Isnt this premature? Id be out there if muller was actually fired. This is too nerdy/wonky to guarantee a strong turnout. ,redstarjedi,e9b1y3j,SandersForPresident
"I would go but im working! and if i dont go to work, i dont get paid! So am i a bad person because i value having money for rent over political actions?",Wrest216,e99y5oo,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99ytb4,SandersForPresident
"[Remember **be civil and don't do anything radical**, and all times listed are east coast times.](https://i.redd.it/vm7n9l1qo0x11.jpg)

Be sure to wear a suit (3 piece or better) and carry at least $20 in cash in each shoe. Also extra medication, and your voter ID. Do not bring umbrellas or flags as certain areas have listed these are weapons. 

If things get out of hand remember to state your name and skin color and how ""this shouldn't be happening"". Always assert your right to speak out of turn when a police officer issues a directive, this is America after all.

",MaxRenn,e99por7,SandersForPresident
"My local event doesnt seem to be planning anything, wth?",Bagelstein,e99mp6z,SandersForPresident
This is a little silly. We should be happy Jeff Sessions is out. The guy was a racist piece of shit. I don’t think anything is going to change with the “Russia investigation”. ,moogsynth87,e9az9kk,SandersForPresident
Viva la Jeff Sessions!,loudog40,e9a9lf7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e9a0i0r,SandersForPresident
"NOT NECESSARILY. some areas have different dates set for the event, so make sure you go on the right date, check with your organizer.",Owl_Blue_Monday,e9avmuf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99le8k,SandersForPresident
Get the word out to anyone not signed up or on Reddit!,eggnewton,e99c4hv,SandersForPresident
👍🏾I'm ready. ,ThinkBecause-YouAre-,e99emav,SandersForPresident
Peacefully I hope...,LegitimateWrap,e99geob,SandersForPresident
I'm feeling the most optimistic I've felt in nearly 2 years. It's finally time. My kids are staying home tomorrow to help me with signs!,538commenter,e9a2bd9,SandersForPresident
"What, exactly, are you going to do?",Happy_Relax_Time,e99ppmb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99pqtw,SandersForPresident
">Its fucking go time. Let's show them how we handle traitors in America. 

With protests?",lameexcuse69,e99zn4u,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99tlbv,SandersForPresident
"I haven’t seen anything about this on my Facebook, despite many activist friends. Could they be censoring posts about the protests ? ",spacedropper,e9ajwff,SandersForPresident
I received my email just before 5pm Central today.,eggnewton,e99fxmv,SandersForPresident
Haven't got mine either... Emailed my organizer.. ,FuRyluzt,e99nc7o,SandersForPresident
"> If you're going to San Francisco

>be sure to wear some flowers in your hair",rathat,e99rtyq,SandersForPresident
"Probably because Rosenstein wasn't actually ""fired"" but had the investigation removed from his command, technically crossing the red line.",eggnewton,e99ocah,SandersForPresident
"I got the first email that they have NOT been scheduled, but I never got a second email confirming a protest.  Furthermore, [the page for the protest](https://www.trumpisnotabovethelaw.org/event/mueller-firing-rapid-response/13273/signup/?akid=undefined&zip=&source=&s=) still says the event has not yet been triggered, and that the protest will happen on Thursday if he (Sessions?) is fired before 2pm, or on Friday if he is fired after 2pm.

So I'm confused.  Hasn't the firing (technically resignation) already happened?  Is there official word that the Atlanta protest is happening?

EDIT: Ok, I just got 5 emails in a row saying that the December 31st(???) protest has been canceled??  And now the link I just shared above is cancelled, even though it had over 5,000 attendees.  What the hell's going on Atlanta??",beantrouser,e99tzki,SandersForPresident
Bless you and your Stone Pony. ,ChemEBrew,e99umti,SandersForPresident
Lots of people have just said to use USA signs.,frockinbrock,e9a10vu,SandersForPresident
" ""I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and **justice for all** ",BeTheBern,e9a3e6b,SandersForPresident
Whittaker must Recuse!!!,Abioticadam,e9ahvr0,SandersForPresident
"""No One reDirects the Orange Inquisition!"" 

Mueller on the sign in a red hat like classic Monty Python bit. 


",gelena169,e99ofum,SandersForPresident
"No border no wall no usa at all!

Seems to be a popular one",MuddyFilter,e9agnqs,SandersForPresident
i'll be at city hall downtown LA. it's my birthday tomorrow as well lol.,upvotes4jesus-,e99xb9d,SandersForPresident
Who cares. Make it at least +1,GreenThumbKC,e99hhep,SandersForPresident
5000+ rsvp for the one in downtown los angeles.,upvotes4jesus-,e99xg9k,SandersForPresident
"Albuquerque, NM standing by.",GentlemanTwain,e9a1yws,SandersForPresident
Go anyway! There's no limit.,eggnewton,e99s9o8,SandersForPresident
Why stop on Jan 1?,arachnivore,e9aw0ie,SandersForPresident
"No,  you're  not a bad person , just caught  in the classic  catch22 that has worked to keep rich people in power for centuries.  Let's  hope others can do this for you... If they fail you may well be forced to sacrifice  a lot more than pay further down the line.  I say this without judgement  whatsoever. ",BeTheBern,e9a1uhi,SandersForPresident
"Nope, honestly your own well being is more important.",Fensterpfleger,e99zu1u,SandersForPresident
"Without assuming anything, I would suggest making it a goal to get out of debt and begin investing. Even if it means a temporary reduction in your standard of living the payoff to getting out of debt slavery is having freedom to spend your time how you see fit. 

Obv I dont know your situation but am just saying that a person can't beat the financial machine by playing along. We need to get free of it. 

",Tactically_Tactless,e9bqtpl,SandersForPresident
"""I'm Bobby, I'm white, and this should NOT be happening to me right now! Not in 2018!""

Edit: I just reread that. Suit? Seriously?",TheGoodRevCL,e99vl41,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99tj18,SandersForPresident
That makes you the one you're  waiting  for,BeTheBern,e9a1c1w,SandersForPresident
Ooof! That can't be a battle cry.,arachnivore,e9aw4cu,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e9a0uog,SandersForPresident
">Who do you think is going to stand up for your interests if you're not going to stand up for your interests? Make your voices clear.

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=1870)  

edit: Have a clear and actionable demand.  


[@SenSanders:](https://twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1060295289872048130)

* Congress must pass legislation to protect Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation, demand that Acting AG Whitaker recuse himself from overseeing the probe based on his previous statements and only confirm a new attorney general who vows to protect Mueller's investigation.
",Chartis,e99oxk1,SandersForPresident
">They don't live in a bubble. They think they do but they really don't. And when you have an energized people, when you have young people all over this country saying it is not right... When millions of people begin to stand up and fight: We bring about change... when people become mobilized, when people by the millions... demand they not continue to cave in to the big-money-interests.    

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=1290)

The longer the protests go & the less violent it is the more impact it will have. Violence will hurt the effectiveness of the action.

[This is what victory looks like.](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=south+korean+protests&t=h_&ia=images&iax=images)  

Be aware of [Agent Provocateurs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agent_provocateur): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cqiba2m4mbw ",Chartis,e99rfod,SandersForPresident
Why are a bunch of day old accounts posting this comment?,willfordbrimly,e9a6hqw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99ycg9,SandersForPresident
Make my voice heard. ,Phoenix2700,e99q5ji,SandersForPresident
" *""Stand ye calm and resolute,Like a forest close and mute,With folded arms and looks which areWeapons of unvanquished war.And if then the tyrants dare,Let them ride among you there;Slash, and stab, and maim and hew;What they like, that let them do.With folded arms and steady eyes,And little fear, and less surprise,Look upon them as they slay,Till their rage has died away:Then they will return with shame,To the place from which they came,And the blood thus shed will speakIn hot blushes on their cheek:Rise, like lions after slumberIn unvanquishable number!Shake your chains to earth like dewWhich in sleep had fallen on you:Ye are many—they are few!""*[\[](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Masque_of_Anarchy#cite_note-masque-3) ",BeTheBern,e9a2ytq,SandersForPresident
"I've shared two posts about this and have gotten no engagement from my friends on facebook. 1/3 of my friends are activists.

So yeah something's up.",CTR0,e9an148,SandersForPresident
"Shared it yesterday and have gotten literally one like, despite being connected to political groups and being friends with many of them. ",ShivaSkunk777,e9b6xlo,SandersForPresident
"Just hit my email 17 minutes ago.

Time for the third quarter. ",CTR0,e99idxs,SandersForPresident
Not sure which event that link is for but the main page is still calling for protests. I don't know why your local group isn't doing it.,eggnewton,e99ufer,SandersForPresident
People are suggesting that opposition has set up fake protests to cancel when the button presses to cause confusion.,CTR0,e9an3hy,SandersForPresident
Please let me know what you find out. I’m trying to plan.,hollywood_halo_,e9b5k4m,SandersForPresident
I like it! I'm going to make my sign right now!!,Im_not_really_real,e9artbu,SandersForPresident
I'm appropriating that.,elspazzz,e99t0g3,SandersForPresident
"Would if I could - I'm in the UK, just following the current American political crisis out of interest and fear that things could go a similar direction in my country. Good luck to you guys.",plazmablu,e99im1a,SandersForPresident
The correct attitude.,Snowpossum,e99pczt,SandersForPresident
BuRqUe inda hoos.  We gon be Burqueing Bad ese,Orbitrix,e9a81hg,SandersForPresident
I have to figure out the address. They blocked all info on it for some reason. ,rathat,e99swn8,SandersForPresident
That’s when the dem house takes over and Mueller will be protected,Skeetronic,e9awe3k,SandersForPresident
"im desperatly trying to find somebody to switch my shift with. Thank you. I will also have to talk to my boss, he is still a boss, but he is also understanding and fair. ",Wrest216,e9a1yut,SandersForPresident
"Do you want bad optics, because this is how you get bad optics.",MaxRenn,e99wwr3,SandersForPresident
"Whoa what do you mean

>""your people""

...?",MaxRenn,e99u0j6,SandersForPresident
Huh???,Bagelstein,e9ab1wm,SandersForPresident
"> Violence will hurt the effectiveness of the action.

Violence won't just hurt the effectiveness of the action... it will fucking end it.

The establishment LOVES violence. They know how to deal with violence. Violence is their bag. Their bread and butter. They get off on it. Give them a nail, they will hammer it into the Earth's core.

Give them a non-violent problem... they don't know what to do... they try to hammer it, it grows bigger. They leave it alone, it gets bigger.

Actually that's not true... they do have the tools to disrupt things... they inject protests with undercover cops and or provocateurs that act out which gives them carte blanche. 

That's why it's always important to identify trouble makers in peaceful protests, record their actions, IDENTIFY THEM (photos) and hand them to authorities. ",Hazzman,e99xs5q,SandersForPresident
Why are you posting your comments? You must be a RUSSIAN BOT. EH?,LegitimateWrap,e9apopl,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #8. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e9a21es,SandersForPresident
">Make my voice heard. 

I do that everyday.",lameexcuse69,e99zozo,SandersForPresident
And then what? Doesn't seem like it's working much. I can't be hopeful with these results.,JakeIsPlaying,e99xnzy,SandersForPresident
"Their rage will die away as we stare at them.

Got it.",lameexcuse69,e9a3rg3,SandersForPresident
"I’ve sent a few in private messages, and that’s gotten some positive responses!",eggnewton,e9anfs4,SandersForPresident
"So when the original Atlanta protest page was up, there was a separate one in Atlanta being hosted by a guy named Waldo, and that one only had a few attendees.  Then the main one got cancelled (when there were over 5000 attendees signed up for it!), and then Waldo's numbers jumped to over 300.  Now there's another ""main"" one being hosted by someone named Jason, but I'm not necessarily convinced that he has any relation to the original organizers.

Now, both Jason and Waldo's events are being held at the same place supposedly, and maybe you can show up, and it'll just be a bunch of people there for the same reason, and it'll be fine.  But in my experience with these things, having definitive organizers is pretty important, so I'm gonna try to avoid this potential mess and just go to the one in Decatur, which has had much less drama.

You can find all these different events [here](https://act.moveon.org/event/mueller-firing-rapid-response-events/search/?zip=30303&source=&s=).",beantrouser,e9bd44f,SandersForPresident
I see what you mean now. I emailed the organizers to find out why that's happening,eggnewton,e99treh,SandersForPresident
"I think that's Jan ~~20th~~ 3rd

Edit: wrong date",arachnivore,e9ayhgg,SandersForPresident
"Hey brother/sister, let me make sure to tell you, I admire the fact you even care enough to try. My answer was just that; an honest answer. Definitely not a smack down of any kind ! Hopefully your boss will also respect your care and commitment to your country .",BeTheBern,e9a29i6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e99ug5t,SandersForPresident
They're saying you should plan it. ,seacookie89,e9ajky1,SandersForPresident
"It s a saying often used in politics and sermons, here you have a random internet article discussing it s origin: http://peterlevine.ws/?p=6105",BeTheBern,e9ao66n,SandersForPresident
"Non-violence doesn't just mean standing around with signs either, though. Petitioning the government only works if they are interested in listening. Effective action means shutting things down. That means blocking the doors and roads to the companies that give financial contributions to these corrupt politicians. It means people working there doing things which are minimally damaging yet interrupt operations, for instance disconnecting all the ethernet cables in a server room or dropping wood into machines to jam gears, not damaging anything but requiring the machines be taken offline to fix. If those are too risky for you, then work to rule: do what your contract says and nothing more. Slow downs, etc. Things which are exactly what you said you'd do: malicious compliance. The billionaires backing this undemocratic bullshit are doing it to make money. That's the only thing they care about and that's how we need to fight it. We should have them begging the politicians to restore democracy as we bleed money from them. These are the tactics that won us most of our rights and work even if the government machine guns down protesters like they did a hundred years ago. We need tactics that don't require the government to be acting in good faith because for the past two years it has been evident that all they care about is money and power.",IAmRoot,e9a1w2g,SandersForPresident
^ 5-day-old account with autogenerated username and one “what about liberals!”-style post,hollywood_halo_,e9b59lt,SandersForPresident
"Way to be defeatist, well done/s",BeTheBern,e9a22xk,SandersForPresident
username checks out I guess,BeTheBern,e9a3vey,SandersForPresident
R local groups already being infiltrated by opposition disruptors :'(?!,Orbitrix,e9a83um,SandersForPresident
Is it? ,Skeetronic,e9ayi16,SandersForPresident
Yeah I get that but there are literally organizers and events set up and all I am saying is that our organizer didnt seem to be on the same page here.  Somehow that means I am supposed to take the reins?  Not all of us have time for that,Bagelstein,e9ak4mw,SandersForPresident
"Please stop. You're participating in a new wave of MacCarthyism. You cannot disregard my opinions so blatantly, it's absurd. I have never left the USA in my entire life. 

*Edit typo",LegitimateWrap,e9ba4qm,SandersForPresident
">username checks out I guess

And who did you quote that from?",lameexcuse69,e9a3xsc,SandersForPresident
"No. It's actually [January 3rd](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/116th_United_States_Congress). I've fixed my comment. I don't know where I got the 20th from.

Regardless, the protests should continue as long as required to protect the investigation.",arachnivore,e9b9npu,SandersForPresident
"Believe it or not, that was meant to encourage and empower you, no offense meant.",BeTheBern,e9ayktd,SandersForPresident
"What opinion did you even share? All you did was engage in some whataboutism, which is toxic to meaningful critiques of the current government. I dismiss your comment because it’s juvenile and out-of-touch, and I dismiss your motives due to the newness and content of your account.",hollywood_halo_,e9bbs8q,SandersForPresident
"Christ, ask the guy to wipe your ass for you why don't ya, you lazy git",willfordbrimly,e9a6iy9,SandersForPresident
Agreed,Skeetronic,e9bhyth,SandersForPresident
"My opinion you repsonded to was: 
> Peacefully I hope...

In response to 

> Its fucking go time. Let's show them how we handle traitors in America.

Nothing you can say will convince me it was wrong for me to post this. Now if you have any issue with a different post of mine, please respond to it and let us discuss the merits of that argument.


> I dismiss your “opinion” because it’s juvenile, and I dismiss your motives due to the newness and content of your account.

Neither of these is related to the content of my message. Please base your opinion on facts, and reason. Thank you.

*edit didn't see it was two different people, but my point basically still stands",LegitimateWrap,e9bc115,SandersForPresident
">Christ, ask the guy to wipe your ass for you why don't ya, you lazy git

Thanks for weighing in, Negative Nancy.",lameexcuse69,e9a73wo,SandersForPresident
"I responded to this.

\> Why are you posting your comments? You must be a RUSSIAN BOT. EH?

Considering the **facts** as we know them, it's **reasonable** to ask why the same comments appear over and over again from brand new accounts with similar names and similar content.",hollywood_halo_,e9bd2me,SandersForPresident
"Oh, a fan!",willfordbrimly,e9a7ilw,SandersForPresident
"
>I responded to this.

>> Why are you posting your comments? You must be a RUSSIAN BOT. EH?

I posted this in response to u/willfordbrimly responding to me with: 
> Why are a bunch of day old accounts posting this comment?

This implies my posts are illegitimate because I don't have an established post history. It's an ad hominem attack intended to discredit me, plain and simple.

I asked why THEY were posting THEIR comments, because THEIR comment doesn't contribute in any meaningful way.
I said 'You must be a RUSSIAN BOT. EH?' because it's a reoccurring Reddit MEME since 2016 to accuse anyone you disagree with of being a 'RUSSIAN BOT', **especially if they don't have a posting history**. 


Nothing in the post is 'whataboutism' at all. You did the exact same thing as u/willfordbrimly which is to make an ad hominem attack intended to discredit me, plain and simple.'

> Considering the **facts** as we know them, it's **reasonable** to ask why the same comments appear over and over again from brand new accounts with similar names and similar content.

Well the facts are, I'm not from Russia, and the age of my account has nothing to do with the quality of my posts. My username was auto-generated by Reddit, so that's probably why it looks so similar to others.

I don't even know how to respond to your claim about 'similar content', it's just another attack on my character, rather than my message. No comment or post of mine is the same as anyone else's. You can't argue with facts, and evidence can you?

You just discredit people you don't agree with by attacking their character. ",LegitimateWrap,e9bfeca,SandersForPresident
">This implies my posts are illegitimate because I don't have an established post history.

Partially, yes. The other part (which is critical) is what I already mentioned. Go up and read again.

> It's an ad hominem attack intended to discredit me, plain and simple.  

Nope. Ad hominem means it's baseless. I already mentioned what I based it on - the similarity of your account to others known to be illegitimate. If you are legitimate, sorry.",hollywood_halo_,e9bhfeo,SandersForPresident
"> This implies my posts are illegitimate because I don't have an established post history.
> > Partially, yes. The other part (which is critical) is what I already mentioned. Go up and read again.

Here's the other part:

> I dismiss your comment because it’s juvenile and out-of-touch, and I dismiss your motives due to the newness and content of your account.

[Here are the rules of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) you violated with this part of your post:

Rule 1: Be Civil
- Because you called me 'juvenile and out-of-touch'

Rule 2: No Trolling (This includes any user who come comes to /r/SandersForPresident to be repetitively disagreeable)
- Because your point was already made by another user, and then you doubled down **without contributing anything**
>  ^ 5-day-old account with autogenerated username and one “what about liberals!”-style post

Rule 3: Unproductive, Off-Topic and Low-Context Submissions
- Because **I'm a real user** your comment is most certainly Unproductive, Off-Topic and Low-Context

Rule 7: Conspiracy Theories and Fear Mongering Are Prohibited (The following is prohibited: Any post or public statement which spreads fear, intimidation, or unease but either has no direct or clear benefit to the greater goals of the sub or is intended to coerce subscribers into behaving or engaging in any way that they would not have done otherwise.)
- The only way to interpret your post is that I'm not a genuine person, and I'm part of a 'troll farm' somewhere. You're trying to convince people to be **afraid** I'm not legitimate, in order to discredit my posts without actually addressing them directly. 


> Nope. Ad hominem means it's baseless. I already mentioned what I based it on - the similarity of your account to others known to be illegitimate. If you are legitimate, sorry.

You should be sorry. [Ad hominem](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ad%20hominem) does not mean it's baseless:

1 : appealing to feelings or prejudices rather than intellect
an ad hominem argument

2 : marked by or being an attack on an opponent's character rather than by an answer to the contentions made
made an ad hominem personal attack on his rival

> the similarity of your account to others known to be illegitimate.

You've provided **ABSOLUTELY** no proof of this. It's based on your opinion, and you're putting me in a bucket with other people you disagree with because it's easier than discussing facts or providing evidence. It's disgusting. 

I'll mention there is a caveat in the rules regarding new accounts. The problem is you're not applying any scrutiny **you're just flat out saying I'm illegitimate because of my opinion, and account age.** 

> Rules Disclaimer
> Account Age: Accounts that are very new or have a very small post/comment history will be subject to greater scrutiny and may have posts/comments removed if they come close to breaking the rules or promote a negative community atmosphere.


*edit formatting was messed up",LegitimateWrap,e9bjpm4,SandersForPresident
You expressed a trolly pseudo-opinion in a trolly way with a brand new account and are saying I'm attacking your character for pointing it out (dramatic much?). I suggest you find something that's actually worthy of your indignation.,hollywood_halo_,e9bkqi6,SandersForPresident
"Legit, look at the top level parent comment for this and tell me I'm the troll. It's obvious my comment about 'RUSSIAN BOT's was intended to acknowledge the age of my account was suspect. The person who initially replied tried to discredit me for no apparent reason, and I'll admit I was a little rude in my response back. Why do you have to be so toxic to me? ",LegitimateWrap,e9blg8w,SandersForPresident
Barbara Lee is my rep. And she is awesome. ,mandelbratwurst,e9apqha,SandersForPresident
Pelosi will roll over for Trump just like she rolled over for Bush. ,mattibbals,e9at0uk,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/digitalleft/status/1060539317506912256?s=21,Chartis,e9anb2j,SandersForPresident
Anyone but Pelosi- she looks crazy eyed and whacked out on Prozac.,flickerkuu,e9bab4s,SandersForPresident
But muh bipartisanship !!!,factor8_,e9b2szz,SandersForPresident
"Bipartisanship and centrism are all well and good, but only if there are people on both sides who are willing to work and compromise. Far too many Democrats are conservatives in disguise.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e9bp2tc,SandersForPresident
That's my house majority leader,rws723,e9ajmv0,SandersForPresident
With so much on the line put your name there too: https://barbaraleeforspeaker.com,Chartis,e9ap0cg,SandersForPresident
">Look, people can chew bubble gum and walk at the same time. Democrats can do that. And if all they’re going to do is investigate Trump, that would be, in my view a very, very serious mistake. I think finally we are going to have oversight over Trump’s behavior. And I think investigations are absolutely appropriate. But simultaneously, people who are making $11 an hour are not worrying about investigations. People who have no health care, or can’t afford prescription drugs, are not worried about subpoenas. People who can’t afford to send their kids to college are not worried about another investigation. So it would be a tragic mistake in my view if all the Democrats did is focus on investigations. They must, must, must go forward with a progressive agenda to win the support of the American people.

>Because —

>Because it’s not an either/or. Investigation, oversight: terribly important. But they have got to come forward with a progressive agenda for working people.",lovely_sombrero,e9bo3ce,SandersForPresident
"First impressions from election night?  

>The fact that Trump fired Sessions in order to remove media coverage from Tuesday night tells me we had a pretty good night.  A significant rejection of Trumpism. Democrats:  

>* regained control of the House
>* won 7 governors’ races.
>* won 300 races at the state legislative 
>* won Senate seats in all 5 states that Trump won in order to get his Electoral College majority — OH, PA, WI & MI  
>* won the race for governor in 3/4 of those states too  

---  

Do you have any plans to oppose what happened in Georgia?  

>I will add my voice and do what I can! Bottom line there: We are aware of the absurdity of this guy Kemp, who is the Secretary of State, counting the votes. He happens to be Stacey Abrams' opponent. The demand has got to be that every bloody vote has got to be counted.  

---  

The Washington Post had an op-ed suggesting this means no “fire-breathing” progressives going forward, no liberals, that the way forward is moderates  

>[Laughs] Matt, I am really shocked by this! I cannot believe that that is their conclusion, given that they have been spouting that absurd line forever, and that was the line that they had which enabled Republicans to gain control of the Senate and the House and the White House and for Democrats to lose almost 1,000 seats in the previous nine years. Of course, that’s what the establishment will say.

>But the truth is that what has happened in this election is a significant step forward in terms of the revitalization of American democracy. It wasn’t moderate democrats or conservative Democrats who got young people into the political process. It wasn’t moderate Democrats who increased voter turnout in this election compared to four years ago, I think by almost 50%.

>It is going to be the most progressive freshman class in the modern history of the United States. Many campaigned on:  

>* Medicare For All
>* raising the minimum wage to 15 bucks
>* making public colleges and universities tuition-free
>* undoing Trump’s tax breaks for billionaires. 

>The political establishment notwithstanding, the future belongs to progressives.


---  

Do you have any thoughts about Jeff Session's legacy as Attorney General, or the meaning of this firing?  

>Trump knows how to manipulate the media and that it’s not an accident that he fired Sessions today, not tomorrow, not the next day: He wanted to divert attention from what happened Tuesday night. Sessions did Trump’s terrible bidding on criminal justice & immigration. 

>He recused himself in terms of the Mueller investigation, which was the right thing to do. And Trump never forgave him. The key question right now is whether or not Trump will attempt to impede the Mueller investigation. That must not be allowed to happen. Congress has got to pass legislation to protect that investigation. If Trump goes forward and tries to impede it, that is an obstruction of justice, which is an impeachable offense. We have to do everything we can in every way to make sure that investigation goes forward.  

---  

Do you have any thoughts about the leadership in the House?

>From day one the Democrats in the House have got to come out with a progressive agenda that speaks to the needs of working people. 

>* Medicare For All...  It’s wildly popular  
>* Raise the minimum wage to $15/h
>* Make public colleges tuition-free
>* Lower student debt. 

>All of these proposals are enormously popular. And they’re good public policy.

>Trump is a 100% political opportunist who has no political views other than how he can win elections. He has no core values. I would not be shocked that if the Democrats passed popular, good legislation, that Trump would look around him and say, “Hey, why not? What do I give a damn?” And he may come on board, because ultimately he doesn’t believe in anything except winning. So I believe it’s terribly important that the Democrats come out of the gate full-steam ahead and start passing really good legislation that puts Trump and the Republicans on the defensive.  
",Chartis,e9boi74,SandersForPresident
I'm so glad he's gone back to full bore Bernie-ism. This Russia investigation bullshit has given dems a free pass for two years to ignore the progressive platform and run on *nothing.* I hope to see a fire like never before going into 2020,robotzor,e9br0ce,SandersForPresident
"It's not bullshit just overplayed by media conglomerates. His even handed and constant pressure along with his relentless certainty is needed, appreciated, and both welcomed & well supported.  

>Trump’s cozy relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose intervention in our 2016 presidential election Trump still fails to fully admit. We face an unprecedented situation of an American president who for whatever reason refuses to acknowledge this attack on American democracy. Why is that? I am not sure what the answer is. Either he really doesn’t understand what has happened, or he is under Russian influence because of compromising information they may have on him, or because he is ultimately more sympathetic to Russia’s strongman form of government than he is to American democracy.  

-Bernie, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)  
>the resentment that Trump obviously had toward Sessions is that he recused himself in terms of the Mueller investigation, which was the right thing to do. And Trump never forgave him. The key question right now is whether or not Trump will attempt to impede the Mueller investigation. And that must not be allowed to happen. Congress has got to pass legislation to protect that investigation. However, if Trump goes forward and tries to impede it, that is in my mind an obstruction of justice, which is an impeachable offense. So we have to do everything we can in every way to make sure that investigation goes forward.   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '18](https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/taibbi-bernie-sanders-interview-753484/)  

I agree that many corporate dems have been running on a facade lacking substance to the determent of the country.  

>Your life is not going well because of an economic and political system which is dominated by people at the top whose interest it is to make sure that your life doesn't go well. That's the problem.  

>If Democrats aren't willing to say that people will turn this country over to the white nationalists.    

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=3085) ",Chartis,e9by0ij,SandersForPresident
1 million felons (?) being able to vote is going to change everything in Florida. ,KindaGamey,e9aqwcp,SandersForPresident
"Agreed, this is just good strategy. But I still think there should be active campaigning in all states. No ground should be ceded, but we shouldn’t rely on it anymore like in the past ",juggersquatch,e9b1p67,SandersForPresident
IL will not be a problem,Crocusfan999,e9b7q0r,SandersForPresident
Ohio shouldn't be in discussion. Solid red state.,OMG_its_JasonE,e9b40eo,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e9b5vtx,SandersForPresident
"""Can not rely"" doesn't mean ""not try""",firemage22,e9b3etb,SandersForPresident
Ohio is a battleground state and has been for decades. Our problem is we are gerrymandered as FUCK to keep democrats and liberals out of power. Don’t underestimate the urban centers of Ohio and the liberal population therein,Abuddend,e9buvnl,SandersForPresident
"Get Sherrod Brown on the ticket and it is in play. I know this is a Sanders sub, but I think a Brown/O'Rourke ticket (or vice versa) would do damn well across the board.",pyrojoe121,e9d0pr7,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e9c9jed,SandersForPresident
"I like that slogan. ""not try"" attitudes never lead to anything better.

""The question we have to ask ourselves is which of the candidates out there is going to win in Michigan, in Ohio, in Pennsylvania, in Wisconsin, in Florida. That is the challenge."" - Bernie",RanLearns,e9b5xsj,SandersForPresident
You can’t gerrymander statewide races. ,OMG_its_JasonE,e9c71hg,SandersForPresident
"I don't think Sherrod is exciting enough for a nationwide race. 

I still think it will even be tough for him to win Ohio against Trump. 

It looked as though there were 185k more votes for Sherrod than his opponent. But those numbers don't match for the governors race. Republicans missed an opportunity to steal Sherrod's seat. They were so focused on the governor's race, they didn't have a strong candidate. Mandel dropping out was bad, but he was bad in the first place. If they had Mary Taylor run for senate instead of governor, I think it would've been a lot closer. She had support during the primary and was Kasich's LT governor. 

That being said. There is a lot that goes into a presidental run that Bernie has been laying the groundwork for 2 years. Sherrod outside of Ohio is a problem. Beto is interesting. But a Sanders/O'Rourke ticket would still have the same issues that Sanders/(White Person) will have. It would make sense to have a Sanders/Gabbard or Sanders/Turner.",OMG_its_JasonE,e9d2n6d,SandersForPresident
"Ohio went blue for Obama both times he ran. Hillary had a load of baggage with NAFTA, taking the rust belt and the whole Midwest for granted (especially Michigan and Wisconsin I’d say) and combating a (faux) populist message from trump. Ohio is not a dyed in the wool red state like Wyoming or Montana ",Abuddend,e9c79r0,SandersForPresident
"Obama was a once in a lifetime candidate. 

Obama x2, Strickland x1, Brown x2. In last 3 major elections that’s all the Dems won. We haven’t had a single Democrat win statewide, non judicial race, since 2010. 

The house and senate are both republican supermajority. 

Supreme Court is 5-2 Republican. Was 6-1 previously. 

Congress is 12-4 Republican. 

2015, 2016 elections had 400k more Republican voters than democrats which is about the population of Dayton, Ohio’s 4th biggest city. ",OMG_its_JasonE,e9c7oew,SandersForPresident
"As you like it, I again refer to my comment concerning gerrymandering, voter suppression etc etc. all those give the Republicans an edge in Ohio, especially at the state level as they do in many states where Republicans hold undue sway. 

Nationally, which is a fair assumption since this is Sanders for President, Ohio has and can go blue. 2016 was hardly typical considering the candidates and circumstances. ",Abuddend,e9c91g4,SandersForPresident
"I think that assumption is flawed. 

Why not indiana? or Kentucky? 

",OMG_its_JasonE,e9cuc3u,SandersForPresident
"Indiana is far more historically conservative due to lack of urban centers it’s not impossible but not likely. Having lived in Indiana the state isn’t very active outside Indy politically, Republicans are typically considered a sure thing. 
Kentucky might have more of a chance but I can’t speak more authoritatively on it. 

The fact is that Ohio is a battleground state for a reason, a bellwether state, and often is a linchpin for Republican candidates. Calling it solid red ignores its history, demographics and diversity. I certainly understand the frustration felt by liberals and progressives here, being one.

You can’t ignore it and giving it up isn’t wise. I don’t claim it’d be easy, but I think it is an important state for any candidate to win. ",Abuddend,e9cuqsz,SandersForPresident
"It's a battleground state because people keep saying it and ignoring the results of the last 10 years. Just because Obama won 10 years ago while every single other election has been red, doesn't make it a blue state. 

I'm not saying give up on Ohio, but the path to 270 doesn't go through Ohio for any democratic candidate. Bernie knows it. Which is why he hasn't been here that much in the last 2 years. 

There is a chance. I'm not giving up, but 2020 is too soon for Ohio to turn blue again. We need a complete overhaul of the state party.  
The county parties need strengthened. But that won't happen in the next 10 years. ",OMG_its_JasonE,e9cv2dh,SandersForPresident
As you like it.,Abuddend,e9cv44c,SandersForPresident
"as it is. 

I don't like it.",OMG_its_JasonE,e9cv5yp,SandersForPresident
"They should not support Pelosi, especially if she is willing to work with trump.",HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e9c6p7z,SandersForPresident
"Check our /r/The_Mueller people are posting videos, photos and updates of the protests.",TomBurcher,e9bswju,SandersForPresident
What a failure. Womp womp,Tactically_Tactless,e9cocfw,SandersForPresident
"B-E-A-Youtiful!  


>There is an extraordinary level of beauty and decency all over this country.  

>There is a lot of beauty in this country. There is a lot of decency. The majority of the American people, they're hard working.  

>My reason for optimism is that having been all over this country:   

> * I see the decency in our people.  

>Our job is to bring our people together, not allow ourselves to be divided up. To think big, not small, to ask 'Why not?'  
I am optimistic because we’re a beautiful country with beautiful people.   

-Bernie, [July 15^th '17](https://youtu.be/8VDBmngXvAU?t=4156)    

>Our job is to have a vision. Don't be afraid of a vision. Don't be afraid of somebody saying 'You're too idealistic.' Don't accept that.   

-Bernie, [Oct 25^th '17](https://youtu.be/3aQTb_Xcyh4?t=372)",Chartis,e9bwt8f,SandersForPresident
"Broward county ballots accidentally dissolved in industrial acid, we'll never know",robotzor,e9bhjoe,SandersForPresident
So he is probably thinking early 2019 just after the dems take the house.,TomBurcher,e9bmjeh,SandersForPresident
">Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns. One ad the Republicans put out was even rejected by Fox television because of its racist content. They used racist rhetoric to divide people and advance agendas that would harm the majority of Americans.

>In Florida, Andrew Gillum, whom I was proud to stand with even during the primaries, faced week after week of racism from his opponent and allied forces. That's just a fact. And in the end, I believe those craven attacks founded in ""fear of the other"" had an impact on the outcome. Stacey Abrams faced similar attacks, in addition to unprecedented voter suppression. That's a reality that has to change.

>It is our job now to continue to offer an alternative to the hate-filled agenda of Trump and Republican operatives. We need to offer a vision that all people, regardless of their race or country of origin, are part of a shared destiny as one people. We have to fight for the soul of our country at this critical moment. Part of that effort is to be honest about what our divisive opponents are trying to accomplish and how it is tearing at the very fabric of our democracy and our common humanity. We've got to continue doing everything that we can to fight all forms of racism.  

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1060589573653311488)  ",Chartis,e9bj9zk,SandersForPresident
"He dropped a hint here:  
  
>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  ",Chartis,e9braub,SandersForPresident
There's just legacy thinking in the 'establishment' Dems that can't even handle what's happening. Trump is a force of utter unrestrained chaos and some Dems still think it's time to drink tea and have crumpets with the CEOs while America falls apart.,penguished,e9aknj1,SandersForPresident
"People like Pelosi would be calling for a bipartisan funeral for themselves after the GOP has voted to have them executed for leftism – with memorial speeches given by the Bushes and Clintons equally. They don't learn that GOP voters nor politicians have zero interest in cooperation. The voters want liberal tears, and the politicians want big money. That's all.",S3lvah,e9bcefi,SandersForPresident
"With all due respect, fuck the bipartisan marketplace.",Baconoid_,e9bdcyv,SandersForPresident
everytime i see a photo of Pelosi i have a mini vomit. How is person still a democratic figurehead?,silvertui,e9b37d2,SandersForPresident
I confess to have giggled at your metaphor. Good one.,S3lvah,e9bclcy,SandersForPresident
"She wouldn't let anyone who wasn't 70 years old into a position of leadership.  The House Dems are a mess the same way dictatorships are when their dictator dies, the dictator only promotes incompetent people who can't challenge their rule.",megs1120,e9bgiqx,SandersForPresident
Because she has been one of the most effective legislative leaders of the last 30 years.,pablonieve,e9bkc6v,SandersForPresident
Pelosi is a hell of a lot better than Schumer,Crocusfan999,e9d2yfr,SandersForPresident
"We need to keep Pelosi in charge. She will lead us with our values, and value us with leadership. She will hope and optimism the opposition into bending to our whims. There will be jobs, opportunity, hope, the opportunity for jobs, jobs of opportunity, and a hope for job opportunity.

Please reconsider this movement.",robotzor,e9b2snd,SandersForPresident
"Better have the liberal lion as the majority leader 

Pelosi is probable going to be speaker for a few months then retire ",Matthmaroo,e9bep9a,SandersForPresident
"> To the degree that Mr. Trump is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families in this country, I and other progressives are prepared to work with him. To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and anti-environment policies, we will vigorously oppose him. 

You want to guess who said that ? Pelosi was a member of the progressive caucus when Bernie was still leading it with others. I think Democrats can do much worse than Pelosi. ",Bardali,e9b7gsq,SandersForPresident
"[https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-florida-elections.html](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-florida-elections.html)

Gillum only needs a net gain of 1640 votes to trigger an automatic recount. Nelson and the race for Agricultural Commissioner are already in recount range and those ballots WILL be needed. Please, for the love of God, spread the word.",S3lvah,e9as997,SandersForPresident
An interesting point. Single payer is automatic voter registration.,some_random_kaluna,e98hrs8,SandersForPresident
[Press](https://www.democraticleader.gov/contact-us/) Nancy [Pelosi](https://twitter.com/nancypelosi) relentlessly until she calls for a vote on H.R.676. The majority of Democrats in the House are [co-sponsors.](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/676) If they're not on board [press your reps](https://resist.bot/) to join the [Medicare For All caucus.](https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All) And while you're at it get your Senators to co-sponsor [S.1804](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804) in the Senate.,Chartis,e98n9ht,SandersForPresident
"I just listened to this on Thom Hartmann’s show the other day. If you aren’t familiar with him, I highly recommend [checking out his show via his website](https://www.thomhartmann.com) or [podcast](https://www.thomhartmann.com/podcast). His archive is worth taking a look at. You can also search for his show on YouTube.",JustMeRC,e98zl2d,SandersForPresident
Well now the house has flipped so if we can flip the Senate in 2020 Medicare for All could become reality ,Harvickfan4Life,e98jb12,SandersForPresident
"If  insurance is de-coupled from employment, people will be less desperate for a job and thus less willing to stand for low wages and other bullshit. If we had medicare for all, then people will be even freer. And those at the top don't want us free. They want us exhausted, scared, hungry and desperate. They want us not to travel or to get educated. They want us sick and broke. Maybe I'm wrong, but when I look at how perfectly the system works to crush the little guy, I can't help but think it was not an accident.",His_Royal_Flatulence,e99agdq,SandersForPresident
"The central thesis of Republican governing philosophy since the Reagan era has been that government doesn't work, and that the private sector is superior.  Medicare for All proves that to be a lie.  It is a slippery slope towards a strong central government that works for all people, and that is trusted.  You can't fathom the existential terror that idea causes in GOP leadership.",TheRealMcTurkey,e99afs8,SandersForPresident
"Um, they don't want medicare for all because they're capitalists and want to protect their money.",slamdotswf,e98t094,SandersForPresident
It's a big leap to assume that Medicare for all would involve an ID card like the Canadian system.,SmokeSerpent,e98wvgn,SandersForPresident
"As center leaning conservative I have mixed views on this. Should every AMERICAN have access to free / affordable medical care yes.  On the other side as a military member I have dealt with the shit show that is government run healthcare, and its not pretty.",WildLunch,e99mrac,SandersForPresident
Then Perish,ijustwannanap,e98wl6z,SandersForPresident
"There are a lot of things that we thought would destroy the GOP, Trump, tolerating lies, overt hypocrisy, supporting Nazis, supporting child molesters, just to name a few.  And yet, the GOP remains.",ZombieGenius,e995bqh,SandersForPresident
"* Medicare for All

* Free Tuition at all State Universities

No one would join the military.

Not saying that is a bad thing.",Quidfacis_,e99g1vi,SandersForPresident
Thank you Bernie Sanders..,UberPirate18E,e991o8w,SandersForPresident
"Interesting. 
But in a lot of countries you can't vote using a medicare/insurance pass. Then again, everyone age 14 and up was expected to be able to identify themselves on the streets so we had free ID cards (only the first time though). Now, a lot of WOII survivors don't agree with having to carry an ID everywhere, but it at leasts fixes your voting issue. 

Also, people should get free in order to vote or they should be able to vote where they want and not have to wait for more than 15 minutes. If none is achievable, they should consider voting by mail.",aTinyFoxy,e99fm1j,SandersForPresident
"It's not just the GOP. The Healthcare and Insurance lobbyist have the largest influence in Washington DC. Do you think they only buy Republicans? Our government could start building hospitals tomorrow if it wanted to fix Healthcare. Politicians don't want it fixed, they want to profitize it. Just like climate change. ",AndAroundWeGo,e99s5k0,SandersForPresident
Sorry what - this article is all over the place and doesn't make any real points about why the GOP is terrified of Medicare for all. Their point boils down to they are racist who voter supress which is a very weak nonsensical argument.,bitERRORrate,e9abj1s,SandersForPresident
"Can anyone here explain how the $3.2 trillion/year would be raised to pay for MFA? 

I know it's less than we spend on healthcare now. 

I'm looking for info on what taxes would be implemented and who pays how much.",dhighway61,e999fp9,SandersForPresident
May they swing back and forth,HangTrumplers,e99e58t,SandersForPresident
Best. Bonus. EVER.,joneSee,e99n0bg,SandersForPresident
Actually common sense could destroy the Republican party as we know it,OMGanteater,e99qal3,SandersForPresident
"Ontarian here. Your health card does NOT double as a drivers licence, passport, ID of any sort other than for health services. Maybe a lax doorman, bartender etc will let it slide but that’s on them. Don’t know why that is considering you can rack up millions of dollars of care for it vs a drivers licence but that’s the law. ",BillBarilkosBones,e99v6g6,SandersForPresident
"I think this article is worthless.  I get that voter suppression is a big deal.  

But IMO there's no reason to think a medicare for all - national ID would fix the issue.  

First, we have plenty of situations where ID's are around and it doesn't translate to automatic registration.  In most states, getting a drivers license, or getting a student ID, or getting a military ID, or enrolling in a government program all don't lead to automatic voter registration.  

Second - while I think in most states voter registration is about making it harder to vote - it does serve two other purposes:

* Validating that you're eligible to vote - a national ID might help to some extent here - who you are, but each state sets their own eligibility requirement, but that's not to say red states wouldn't put in a difficult process past the national ID to prove you're eligible to vote - ie proving you're a citizen and non-felon (if ID's are given to non citizens).

* Validating your address (where you vote) - Again - a national ID might be nice to have, but what happens when you move?  Do you get your ID updated each and every time?  How difficult is this process?  Again - having a national ID that doesn't reflect your current address just seems like another reason red states could make up to invalidate voter registration.  


I think it's a giant leap to assume that medicare for all = national ID's for all, and that every red state will all the sudden adopt automatic voter registration and make it easy to vote with that national ID.  ",etown361,e9agkdp,SandersForPresident
"I had no problems voting when it came to voting for president. All of my problems were when the DNC closed EVERY SINGLE voting center except for 1 that was split between 2 very large counties during the primaries. I waited 7 HOURs to vote for Bernie during those primaries.

If any one is terrified of more voters, it's clearly the DNC, not the GOP.",RogueRAZR,e99e24s,SandersForPresident
The Dem establishment is even more afraid,saul2015,e99hn0j,SandersForPresident
"If they would support single payer, I would become a Republican. It's that important of an issue for me and I don't think the Democrats want to do it.",pilgrimboy,e99119y,SandersForPresident
I saw Elvis yesterday ,bucket720,e99bbo8,SandersForPresident
The GOP doesn’t like a universal healthcare system because it would bankrupt the country.,CondemnedCookie,e99way6,SandersForPresident
How about because it doesn’t work.. 😂,waej11,e99hkps,SandersForPresident
"I'm ready for it, just afraid of waiting months for any serious medical procedures or operations.",abfanhunter,e9944es,SandersForPresident
"Wouldn't the additional voter registrations be offset by the millions of people upset that they have to pay huge new taxes?  

Medicare is presently funded by payroll taxes.  Everybody who has a job pays - starting with dollar one.  Not just the rich.  According to Sanders, it will be an additional 11.5% payroll tax.

Add this to the existing SS, DI and other payroll taxes and you will be getting close to 25%.  Think most people would stand for it?  Half of households furrently pay zero income tax.  How many would turn Republican when they see their 40K become 30K?

 If everyone is so concerned about Americans having access to health care, then everyone should happily pay for it right?",Rebunga,e997wk1,SandersForPresident
"Here's the real reason: universal healthcare will never work in a Capitalist market. That money has to come from somewhere! Do you expect that money to be pulled from the government's asshole? We are 21 trillion dollars in debt, we could never afford universal healthcare!",AtariPaperBoy,e99exxs,SandersForPresident
The Republican Party was already destroyed as they knew it when trump was elected.  ,Caribbean-barracuda,e9980fc,SandersForPresident
"While I fully support Medicare for all (MFA), this is a stupid idea.  Tying voter ID to MFA, will provide just another reason for the Republicans to oppose it. 

Why not issue photo Social Security cards (or other national ID) for use in voting/flying/driving?",yodacallmesome,e99naiw,SandersForPresident
"No thanks, I don’t want the government choosing who my doctors are and if a procedure is really necessary or not ",cufty,e99oc5s,SandersForPresident
Lul good one   ,Zor369,e99hdqc,SandersForPresident
"Maybe an interesting point but I don’t know if I could be convinced it’s what terrifies the GOP the most. 

IMO the main reason they do not want to see Medicare for all nor free tuition to public colleges is that healthcare and paid college tuition are the primary attraction for young people to join the military. 

If you “give” those away recruitment numbers will plummet, I believe. 

Voting may be a big concern, but I’ve held the belief that military recruitment is the largest roadblock for a long time. ",cheezytoast,e9966uo,SandersForPresident
I mean... That's how they implemented it in Canada. There's literally zero reason to believe it would go down that way here. And this is the linchpin of this article. The rest of the article completely falls apart unless you buy this nonsense.,krelin,e99drky,SandersForPresident
Shouldn't having ID already be automatic voter registration? How would this be different?,Mute2120,e99gdxx,SandersForPresident
"I'm happy to see that my local representative, Peter Welch, is a part of the caucus and also a co-sponsor of S.1804. I'd love to see a list of reps that aren't currently in favor of Medicare For All, prioritized by an estimation of how likely they are to flip. Medicare For All can and should dominate the conversation over the next two years. This is doable! ",formerteenager,e98q8k5,SandersForPresident
"Lol not a single Republican. Cracks me up as I'm here with my super Republican mother in Louisiana (she wants to keep civil war statues as reminders to not make mistakes again, for instance).

She despises the fact that they want to remove the preexisting condition and loves the idea of MforAll yet she voted for the R in Louisiana in her district. Hours later I told her he voted against preexisting and she got mad and yelled why I didn't tell her lol. 

Ill informed, regretful mistakes, and actually want everything the Democratic progressives keep lobbying for....but refuses to vote for those interests...

Sigh. ",blakedc,e990ghv,SandersForPresident
"Hell yes, Pelosi (or whoever ends up as the House Speaker), should do the same thing the GOP did with the ACA repeal,  just keep bringing up the law for passage and keep surfacing the issue. It's a real move forward, but is a nice issue to also make inroads into rural voters.",nphased,e998d8d,SandersForPresident
What do you think the chances of passing the new Senate are? ,Trisagion_und_Isolde,e99f5he,SandersForPresident
Fuck Nancy Pelosi. We need a better speaker.,JoeHillForPresident,e99h0md,SandersForPresident
"alot of work to do in mass on the Rep side. 

&#x200B;

both senators support M4A though. ",revolutionhascome,e99ianz,SandersForPresident
Possible only if the next leader of the house isn't Nancy Pelosi who has said Medicare for All would be prohibitively expensive. ,YouBetterDuck,e98jz95,SandersForPresident
"I'm in the upper middle class and don't want to pay for your health care.  Medicare for All would be a downgrade compared to the current insurance package I have, and I would have to pay more.  

You are complaining about being oppressed, yet your solution is to oppress others and force them to pay your way through life.  ",182iQ,e9bkckw,SandersForPresident
I dont believe that argument simply because of the GOPs shift to enforce immigration. Free and open boarders is now a Democrat running point. However free and open boarders drive down wages as it causes a surplus of workers. It reduces the negotiating power of labor unions as there is now an abundance of people willing to work for less. ,bitERRORrate,e9abu8y,SandersForPresident
"*plutocrats* capitalists should thrive on competition, embrace regulatory bodies that even the playing field against businesses that would otherwise make unethical decisions and encourage a race upwards not to the bottom.

Plutocrats have all the money, all the power, are against competition and want to keep standards of living low so people don't have options for employment and wont rock the boat.",morpheusmade,e98ui4n,SandersForPresident
"Who's ""they""?  If you vote in primary and general elections for Democrats who support Medicare for All, and enough of them win to pass it in the house and senate, and there is a president who doesn't veto it, it will happen.  It's not easy, but it's not impossible either.  ",h_lance,e98w22i,SandersForPresident
How else would you know who gets the benefits?,vreddy92,e990fjw,SandersForPresident
I would bet that anybody in the developed world who has health insurance also had a health insurance card... why is this a hard thing to believe?,Emuuuuuuu,e991bgk,SandersForPresident
"You know that seniors who are currently on Medicare receive a card, right? Why wouldn't that apply to everyone under MfA?",davedawg2000,e993cai,SandersForPresident
"Did you go bankrupt or end up in a lifetime of debt for an emergency? If not, it was still better than everyone else in the US.

And if you're looking at a party to blame for the state of military health care, may I suggest you look at the one that keeps trying to [cut funding from the VA and health care in general]  (https://www.forbes.com/sites/charlestiefer/2018/06/08/veterans-sustain-two-serious-defeats-from-trump-and-the-house-to-va-health-care/#7e5ba9932c5a). ",ISieferVII,e99zaav,SandersForPresident
Mass voter registration is their kryptonite ,SummerGoal,e998juz,SandersForPresident
That’s how you get required  or drafted service. ,domechromer,e99y1t8,SandersForPresident
There are currently over 40 million people with student loans.  There will be a revolution if you use their tax dollars to fund Free College for other people.  You'd have to bail them out or you can forget about it.  It would cost $1.5 trillion.,182iQ,e9bj2lr,SandersForPresident
"I don't think anyone's put together a concrete plan like this (because it would have been dead on arrival in the previous congresses), but I imagine it would be an extension of the Medicare tax that already comes out of paychecks, plus (hopefully) an added capital gains tax (or some similarly progressive tax)",davedawg2000,e99f35w,SandersForPresident
https://www.sanders.senate.gov/download/options-to-finance-medicare-for-all?inline=file,stoopslife,e99mxsj,SandersForPresident
"I can't help but think how poorly medicare is run now, and how open it is to fraud.  Isn't the real problem the cost of general healthcare and lack of price controls?  If MCA  is implemented, strict price controls must be a part of the system, which should drastically cut back on fraud and price gouging in the market, lowering overall costs.

I'd be fine paying more in taxes for MCA if I had any trust in our system to not waste and give away all of my money.   ",signalwave,e99o90z,SandersForPresident
"Almost nobody in power wants to do it. Some Democrats do, some don’t, pretty sure all Republicans are against it. It’s a money thing, they are being paid off most likely",CaptainAction,e993p1k,SandersForPresident
Please Don't Feed The Troll.,oldest_boomer_1946,e9acpip,SandersForPresident
Please tell me you know how ridiculous that is though? ,Jonny36,e997m7i,SandersForPresident
"OK, bye.",ManlyBeardface,e995yha,SandersForPresident
"You won’t. Not for ‘serious medical procedures’. You might wait for ‘non-serious medical procedures’ though.

Just like an ER treats people based on seriousness, and not based on ‘first come, first served’",Uranus_Hz,e9974ib,SandersForPresident
Where are you pulling that 11.5% number from? Never heard sanders say that. ,HereIsSomeoneElse,e99agc7,SandersForPresident
With the benefit of no longer get paying for health insurance premiums and copays. It would a net win for most people. ,Hambone76,e99e60u,SandersForPresident
Pay a little extra tax and completely ditch insurance premiums? Sign me the fuck up,wardsandcourierplz,e99qkqe,SandersForPresident
"Universal healthcare does work in the following capitalist markets: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom ...",horstenporst,e9a2r7w,SandersForPresident
"One would think so. But wouldn't this midterm have played out differently if that were the case? People are incredibly stubborn about their beliefs, no matter how unfounded (and ridiculous) they may be.",Cyndakaiser,e99kj8o,SandersForPresident
Private insurance already chooses your doctor (network) and whether your care is necessary (covered). They profit when you get minimal care. The government will have no such profit incentive to deny you care.,wardsandcourierplz,e99pu6j,SandersForPresident
"It was the reason I joined, besides the fact that I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life at 18.",hillbillyjoe1,e996h02,SandersForPresident
"IMHO if they actually had to PAY the soldiers a living wage so they are not on food stamps, they could probably recruit more, but the GOP hates giving raises to anyone who is not a politician or super-rich prick",Denihilist,e997di2,SandersForPresident
That reasoning sounds much more likely to me.,oneinchterror,e9975bp,SandersForPresident
"Getting truer every year. Stopped in on a buddy giving one of those “welcome to the wing” briefings, he asked a kid why he joined, said free education, asked by a show of hands who else did, 100% of the hands in the room went up without hesitation.",antman152,e99sjm9,SandersForPresident
I think the motive is more direct and less nefarious. It’s simply the desire to limit government regulation and involvement in something they don’t believe is the government’s responsibility. ,jco1510,e99l94u,SandersForPresident
"The 121 Democratic Members of Congress who haven't yet signed onto H.R.676: Medicare For All (edited for formatting/correctness)  

STATE
Name -district history vote/vscompetior | (no vote totals means uncontested. If numbers don't add up to 100 there was more than 2 candidates)  

Many ""New"" candidates like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will be signing up but until their name is on the line it's hard to separate the wheat from the chaff; Many have some form of idea about Medicare on their issues page that is hard to determine if they are in support.  

Please check for errors, and perhaps suggest which freshman members are certainly going to sign H.R.676.  

Once we ensure our ducks are in a row perhaps we could benefit from a graphic with contact info (dated & updated weekly) for dissemination.  

* If your member is not on here check to see they are on the [Medicare For All House Caucus]( https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All)

* Make sure your Senators have signed on to [S.1804]( https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804/cosponsors)  

* [Press]( https://www.democraticleader.gov/contact-us/) Nancy [Pelosi]( https://twitter.com/nancypelosi) to call for a vote: (202) 225-0100  

* [Resistbot]( https://resist.bot/)  

---     


ALABAMA  
Terri Sewell -7 Incumbent  

ARIZONA  
Tom O'Halleran -1 Incumbent 53/47  
Ann Kirkpatrick -2 Incumbent 53/47  
Greg Stanton -7 Incumbent 59/41  

CALIFORINA  
Ami Bera -7 Incumbent 53/47  
Nancy Pelosi -12 Incumbent 85/14  
Jim Costa -16 Incumbent 54/46  
Salud Carbajal -24 Incumbent 56/44  
Katie Hill - 25 New 51/49  
Julia Brownley -26 Incumbent 59/41  
Tony Cardenas -29 Incumbent 79/21  
Pete Aguilar -31 Incumbent 56/44  
Norma Torres -35 Incumbent 68/32  
Raul Ruiz - Incumbent 56/44  
Harley Rouda -48 New 51/49  
Mike Levin -49 New 53/47  
Juan Vargas -51 Incumbent 68/32  
Scott Peters -52 Incumbent 61/39  
Susan Davis -53 Incumbent 66/34  

COLORADO  
Joe Neguse -2 New 60/35  
Jason Crow -6 New 53/44  

CONNECTICUT  
John Larson -1 Incumbent 64/35  
Joe Courtney -2 Incumbent 62/35  
Rosa DeLauro -3 Incumbent 72/38  
Jim Himes -4 Incumbent 61/39  
Jahana Hayes -5 New 56/44  

DELAWARE  
Lisa Rochester - Incumbent 64/36  

FLORIDA  
Stephanie Murphy -7 Incumbent 58/42  
Val Demings -10 Incumbent  
Charlie Crist -13 Incumbent 58/42  
DWS -23 Incumbent 58/36  
Debbie Mucarsel-Powell -26 Incumbent  
Donna Shalala -27 New 52/46  

GEORGIA  
Lucy McBath -6 New 51/49  
David Scott -13 Incumbent 76/24  

HAWAII  
Ed Case -1 New 73/23  

ILLINOIS  
Dan Lipinski -3 Incumbent 73/27  
Chuy Garcia -4 New 86/14  
Mike Quigley -5 Incumbent 76/24  
Sean Casten -6 New 53/48  
Raja Krishnamoorthi -8 Incumbent 66/34  
Brad Schneider -10 Incumbent 65/35  
Bill Foster -11 Incumbent 64/36  
Lauren Underwood -14 New 52/48  
Cheri Bustos -17 Incumbent 62/38  

IOWA  
Abby Finkenauer -1 New 51/46  
Cindy Axne -3 New 49/48  

KANSAS  
Sharice Davids -3 New 53/44  

LOUISIANA  
Cedric Richmond -2 Incumbent 81/9  

MARYLAND  
Dutch Ruppersberger -2 Incumbent 66/31  
Steny Hoyer -5 Incumbent 70/28  
David Trone -6 Incumbent 58/39  

MASSACHUSETTS  
Richard Neal -1 Incumbent  
Lori Trahan -3 New 62/33  
Joseph Kennedy -3 Incumbent  
Seth Moulton -6 Incumbent 65/31  
Ayanna Pressley -7 New    
Stephen Lynch -8 Incumbent  
Bill Keating -9 Incumbent 59/41  

MICHIGAN  
Daniel Kildee -5 Incumbent 59/36  
Elissa Slotkin -8 New 61/47  
Andy Levin -9 New 60/37  
Haley Stevens -11 New 52/45  
Rashida Tlaib-13 New 85/11  

MINNESOTA  
Angie Craig -2 New 53/47  
Dean Phillips -3 New 56/44  
Betty McCollum -4 Incumbent 66/30  
Ilhan Omar -5 New 78/21  
Collin Peterson -7 Incumbent 52/48  

NEVADA  
Susie Lee -3 New 52/43  
Steven Horsford-4 New 52/44  

NEW HAMPSHIRE  
Chris Pappas -1 New 54/45  
Ann McLane Kuster -2 Incumbent 56/43  

NEW JERSEY  
Jeff Van Drew -2 New 52/46   
Andy Kim -3 New 50/49  
Josh Gottheimer -5 Incumbent 55/44  
Frank Pallone -6 Incumbent 63/37    
Tom Malinowski -7 New 63/37  
Bill Pascrell -9 Incumbent 70/29  
Mikie Sherrill -11 New 56/43  

NEW MEXICO  
Debra Haaland -1 New 59/36  
Xochitl Torres Small -2 New 51/49  
Ben Ray Lujan -3 Incumbent 63/32  

NEW YORK  
Thomas Suozzi -3 Incumbent 58/42  
Kathleen Rice -4 Incumbent 61/39  
Hakeem Jeffries -8 Incumbent 94/5  
Max Rose -11 New 53/47  
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez -14 New 78/14  
Sean Patrick Maloney -18 Incumbent 55/45  
Antonio Delgado -19 New 50/50  
Anthony Brindisi -22 New 50/50  
Joseph Morelle -25  New 58/42  

OHIO  
Marcy Kaptur -9 Incumbent 68/32  

OKLAHOMA  
Kendra Horn -5 New 51/49  

OREGON  
Kurt Schrader -5 Incumbent 55/42  

PENNSYLVANIA  
Madeleine Dean -4 New 63/37  
Mary Scanlon -5 New 65/35  
Chrissy Houlahan -6 New 59/41  
Susan Wild -7 New 53/44  
Conor Lamb -17 Incumbent 56/44  

SOUTH CAROLINA  
Joe Cunningham -1 New 51/49  

TEXAS  
Lizzie Fletcher  -7 New 52/48  
Veronica Escobar -16 New 68/27  
Joaquin Castro -20 Incumbent 81/19  
Henry Cuellar -28 Incumbent 84/16  
Sylvia Garcia -29 New 75/24  
Colin Allred -32 New 52/46  
Lloyd Doggett -35 71/26  

UTAH  
Ben McAdams -4 New 51/49  

VIRGINIA  
Elaine Luria -2 New 51/49  
Bobby Scott -3 Incumbent  
Donald McEachin -4 Incumbent 62/36   
Abigail Spanberger -7 New 50/49  
Jennifer Wexton -10 New 56/43  
Gerry Connolly -11 Incumbent 71/27  


WASHINGTON  
Suzan DelBene -1 Incumbent 59/41  
Rick Larsen -2 Incumbent 72/28  
Derek Kilmer -6 Incumbent 63/37  
Kim Schrier -8 New 53/47  
Denny Heck -10 Incumbent 61/39  

WISCONSIN  
Ron Kind -3 Incumbent 60/40  
",Chartis,e99j79j,SandersForPresident
The culture war is more important than issues and most people are too egotistical to switch sides at this point. ,wadamday,e996x62,SandersForPresident
"I bet a lot of people would be willing to trade medicare for all for a few less attacks on their culture, or for safeguards against future attacks. Or any other number of issues. 
All sides need to step back from attack mode occasionally and play some calculated hardball. 
",desolation-row,e99ofqa,SandersForPresident
"Zero. That's spanish for ""zero"".

Gotta vote them out in 2 years, which should give Medicare for All even more time to grow on the independents.
",ImAGhostOooooo,e99fwfy,SandersForPresident
She passed the public option in the house in 2009 and kept the house democrats in line for the last two years. I think it's ok to dislike her but she's goodat her job. ,easilypeeved,e99phen,SandersForPresident
"This exactly, Nancy Represents the worst of the clinton 3 thirdway Democrats. To be fair the 3 thirdway Democrats are considerably, by miles not inches, better than the Republicans in the far left of their party who are a regressive minority in a party of a majority illiberal fascists.",Pint_and_Grub,e98t63z,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e990wew,SandersForPresident
"ĞI'm covered and doing alright, myself. I've been fortunate. I don't mind paying a little extra so that others can be ok, too. Fortunately, I'm not the only one that feels this way. Maybe one day we won't be a minority.

Incidentally, I have a chronic illness that arose when I was a child. It has made steady employment a challenge. There are many that are sick through no fault of their own but who can't qualify for SSI. (Living on SSI is not living high on the hog even if you can get it.) Is the US too weak, too self-centered, or just too cruel to do what other nations do?
I don't believe using taxes instead of our weird employer plus employee paid system is oppression. ",His_Royal_Flatulence,e9borfm,SandersForPresident
"[Bernie Sanders explodes a right-wing myth: ‘Open borders? No, that’s a Koch brothers proposal'](https://www.rawstory.com/2015/07/bernie-sanders-explodes-a-right-wing-myth-open-borders-no-thats-a-koch-brothers-proposal/)",Chartis,e9aomxr,SandersForPresident
Capitalism is the maximization of profits through exploitation. Why would they want more regulations and an even playing field? How could they encourage a race to the top in any way but lip service?,slamdotswf,e98vqm3,SandersForPresident
"> capitalists should thrive on competition

lol, no. Rent seeking behavior is an inextricable part of capitalism. It's not a bug; it's a mandatory feature of the system to the point where it's taught in intro level economics classes. Downplay it all you want, but don't pretend that people aren't capitalists unless they're willing to selflessly sacrifice themselves for the greater good. That's basically the opposite of capitalism. ",CrystalineAxiom,e98vfbv,SandersForPresident
"> capitalists should thrive on competition, embrace regulatory bodies that even the playing field against businesses that would otherwise make unethical decisions and encourage a race upwards not to the bottom.

Do you base the meaning of a word off of what the actual features & actions of those it describes are or what they *should* be?  While you say they shoudl do the above, they **always** do the opposite.

Let's just give up the fantasy that the capitalism that you describe has ever, or can ever exist.",ManlyBeardface,e995pgj,SandersForPresident
"""They"" are the GOP/capital class. I'm not saying it's impossible, just that the auto-registration to vote isn't even on their radar when they know the tax money required to pay for such a thing would be a drain on their profits.",slamdotswf,e98w7kn,SandersForPresident
"By presenting a Medicare card which is not too much different than any other insurance card and a photo ID separately, as Medicare patients currently do.",SmokeSerpent,e99cx5p,SandersForPresident
"Read the article and what a Canadian Health Insurance ID card is like, and follow the handy link to a picture example, then look up what a Medicare card looks like.",SmokeSerpent,e99cuyx,SandersForPresident
Not a photo ID card like they are talking about in the article.,SmokeSerpent,e99cpij,SandersForPresident
"The VA is a separate institution from normal military medial.  If you want military quality health care, here.  No matter what the issue is take 500mg of Motrin and stretch more.  ",WildLunch,e9aeew3,SandersForPresident
"> It would cost $1.5 trillion.

That's just 3 years of military spending.  No biggie.",Quidfacis_,e9bwz0w,SandersForPresident
"A 100% capital gains tax, by my calculations, would only raise an additional 600 billion by my calculations [based on this info](https://www.taxpolicycenter.org/statistics/historical-capital-gains-and-taxes).

That leaves an additional 2.6 trillion, which amounts to $1,400/mo. for every employed person, if there are 155 million employed.",dhighway61,e99tcy8,SandersForPresident
"Implementing all of those only raises 16 trillion over 10 years, which is only half of the funds needed.

Where does the extra 16 trillion come from?",dhighway61,e99vgcf,SandersForPresident
"It isn't ""most likely"".",kapeman_,e995nbi,SandersForPresident
Thanks for not attacking me.,pilgrimboy,e99guru,SandersForPresident
"At this point, I think there is a better chance that Trump would support single payer over Pelosi.",pilgrimboy,e99grsz,SandersForPresident
We don't have to part ways. It isn't happening.,pilgrimboy,e99gslb,SandersForPresident
"https://www.sanders.senate.gov/download/options-to-finance-medicare-for-all?inline=file

According to Sanders: 7.5% by employers and 4% by households.  But this is likely a huge underestimate.  

$3.2 trillion per year?  That's pretty much the entire amount of income taxes collected by the IRS annually.  So one could fund Medicare For All with income taxes, just take your tax bill and double it.

In 2015 Vermont looked at single payer - at an additional 12.5% payroll tax plus another 9.5 % state income tax, and balked. Vermont's plan was not as generous as the M4A plan by Sanders.

What payroll tax would raise the 3.2 trillon needed annyally ?  ""The Congressional Budget Office estimates a one percentage point increase in the payroll tax would raise about $100 billion in 2026, suggesting a payroll tax of 30 percent or more would be necessary to pay for M4A.""  https://www.mercatus.org/bridge/commentary/medicare-all-taxes-and-tradeoffs

So downvote away!  You still gotta pay!
",Rebunga,e9bfw3b,SandersForPresident
"Ah, but you see, they are not free like us. For this to work, one must severely tax the rich to pay for the healthcare. In America, this is not legal and unfair.",AtariPaperBoy,e9af5m6,SandersForPresident
"With my private insurance I can choose from several doctors in-network. We see already that with government issued healthcare (Medicare and Medicaid) the gov issues a provider whereas with private healthcare you can choose (and they still cover some portion of out of network, most of the time). 

Source: I work in healthcare/insurance and deal with Medicare problems all day. At least with my private insurance if I don’t like the service I can find new insurance. ",cufty,e99q23j,SandersForPresident
Damn dude me too. Did you figure out what you wanted to do after?,starpirateaji,e999zdh,SandersForPresident
"You mean an increased demand for a service should result in higher wages for the people providing that service? *Shhhh*, we only like capitalism when it makes rich people richer.",spritanium,e99gmrv,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, with all the trillions we’ve spent on dumb shit like the F-35, anything Haliburton bought and then burnt in the desert while profiting off “cost-plus”, or the money we spent to burn down houses, villages, kill women and children in Iraq and Afghanistan.... With all of that, I’d be OK if we spent more to actually pay those poor fucking grunts. ",shagginwaggon66,e998uqu,SandersForPresident
"This ^

I hate hearing how pro-vet the GOP is. Just not when it comes to reasonable pay, healthcare, or psychological assistance post-combat.

But oh jeez do we need more jet contracts.",Silas06,e99er0z,SandersForPresident
"I'd be really interested where you're getting this information. The military pays just fine. Even if your base pay isn't that high, you also get allowances that will pay for your housing up to 100%, food allowances, cost of living overseas, retroactive lowering of interest on debts owed before joining, interest free loans in certain situations, etc. If you can't survive in the military financially, it's because of irresponsibility.",Beefsoda,e99wlr9,SandersForPresident
"This is normal and they know it. Barely anyone believes anyone else is joining to ""serve their country"" we all joined for benefits.",Beefsoda,e99wpkt,SandersForPresident
Ayanna Pressley is not an incumbent. She's my new rep. ,ApolloSimba,e99kucs,SandersForPresident
"Thanks for the translation amigo.

&#x200B;

Interestingly enough, a poll I saw recently said roughly 40 % of Republican voters would like medicare for all. ",Trisagion_und_Isolde,e99g0bp,SandersForPresident
"The house speaker is going to be the de facto leader of the resistance the next two years. Their speeches will be on TV their pictures will be in newspapers, their name will be everywhere. Pelosi is a symbol of the old guard of the Democratic party, the Clinton Democrats. Letting her be that mouthpiece is a clear message to the American people that the Democrats are the same pseudo corporate weiners that they've been since Bill Clinton. 

Not to mention that she's old and uninspiring. She has no charisma. She's not going to have the ability to convince the people that the president needs to work with the Democrats even as the Democrats are investigating him. ",JoeHillForPresident,e9abt7a,SandersForPresident
I’ve read this like 4 times and have no idea what you mean. ,royal23,e98v0he,SandersForPresident
"I just don't understand how all these other countries are doing it, but we aren't. I should read more about it, I guess.",mrsaturnboing,e9941bs,SandersForPresident
"No. The system we have now is prohibitavely expensive. We spend more per person than any nation by a long shot. We spend more governments dollars per person than any nation but Norway.

https://www.healthsystemtracker.org/chart-collection/health-spending-u-s-compare-countries/#item-relative-size-wealth-u-s-spends-disproportionate-amount-health

The number one cause of bankruptcy is medical debt, and the majority of those that go bankrupt HAVE insurance. 

",HereIsSomeoneElse,e999m8v,SandersForPresident
"It would cost us less under a Medicare for all system if done right. 

1. It would eliminate the high cost of paying corporate executives

2. We would save by adding cost controls on procedures and prescription drugs

3. We would save, like they do in Europe by awarding contracts to suppliers that provide equipment at the lowest prices

4. We also should hire out pharmaceutical companies only to perform testing which is basically all they do anyway. The US tax payers pay researchers to make the vast majority of drug discoveries and the pharmaceuticals do a few tests, lock up patents and then over charge the US citizens that paid for everything.

As a nation we must decide if we want to live in a nation overrun with crony capitalism, or a nation were everyone benefits from the taxes we pay. It isn't a handout, it is simply getting something we already pay for.",YouBetterDuck,e997db5,SandersForPresident
"Fair point, raw capitalism works the same way communism does, in that it doesn't. 

America is experiencing a highly capitalist society, and failing. Most developed countries are more socialist/capitalist hybrids and are doing fairly well, if not for the drain they feel from americas regressive policies. 

If America became more socialist/capitalist i guarantee many developed nations would be free to move even further into a labor-owned capitalist society and fair even better.",morpheusmade,e98xd6n,SandersForPresident
"You are right, the will of the people and ergo the government should be diametrically opposed to lasse faire capitalism,  but since America legalized bribery and the government represents the business world and not the will of the people, we are experiencing a pure capitalist society.

Capitalism, more specifically socialist/capitalism or even labor-owned capitalism is much less defective and can actually achieve the things capitalists claim happens now.",morpheusmade,e98xnmv,SandersForPresident
"I was using it to describe what the ideal capitalist should be, in an effort to show how far it is from reality. It seems this comment has been taken as a pro-lasse faire capitalism comment amd it was intended to highlight the reality that no capitalist in America behaves this way, nor does our government. ",morpheusmade,e99e1sj,SandersForPresident
"I don't really need to... I live here.

The old BC cards used to look like [this](https://www.health.gov.bc.ca/exforms/msp/images/carecard.gif).  Only the newer ones have photos.


My point is that these things can transition over time and it's not really this giant impossible feat to work out healthcare cards on a state level.



I'm not exactly convinced that health-card == voter registration... I think that argument is specious at best.",Emuuuuuuu,e99en0e,SandersForPresident
"Why not? Just add photos to the card. It sounds like a good system, especially if everyone is going to get them anyway.",ISieferVII,e99z2hk,SandersForPresident
"Think about how much a typical large employer is paying towards their employees' health insurance premiums -- that's gotta be a piece of the equation, no?",davedawg2000,e99upes,SandersForPresident
I didn’t have a source ready or anything so I played it safe,CaptainAction,e99f05y,SandersForPresident
I don't think I'll take predictions from the /r/Conspiracy crowd.,ManlyBeardface,e99hvyc,SandersForPresident
">I work in healthcare/insurance

Literally a shill",wardsandcourierplz,e99qxxv,SandersForPresident
"Sure did.  Wanted to get into the utility industry, so went to community college in my hometown and lived in my parents basement.",hillbillyjoe1,e99aoeo,SandersForPresident
Exactly!,ommanipadmehome,e99d3u3,SandersForPresident
F-35 isn’t dumb,NastyHobits,e99l9ol,SandersForPresident
"https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2017/04/19/524563155/when-active-duty-service-members-struggle-to-feed-their-families

https://www.stripes.com/news/lawmakers-push-for-military-access-to-food-assistance-program-1.514735

https://www.military.com/daily-news/2018/02/14/how-presidents-food-stamp-cuts-would-impact-military-families.html",Denihilist,e99y84n,SandersForPresident
"Idk, your paychecks for an E4 with over 2 years of service are $1,125.50ish. 

",DrewChrist87,e9amele,SandersForPresident
Thanks! Fixed.,Chartis,e99l6um,SandersForPresident
"* [52%](https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-progressives/) of Republicans support Medicare For All 

* [40%](https://www.thedailybeast.com/poll-40-of-republicans-want-congress-to-push-for-medicare-for-all) said pursuing the policy should be a high priority for this new Congress.",Chartis,e99jho0,SandersForPresident
"Lol, hopefully that didn't sound too sassy. I was just being goofy, no sass intended.

I'm really excited to hear that! I think we're on our way to winning the healthcare debate in the coming years.",ImAGhostOooooo,e99mb7k,SandersForPresident
"I understood it perfectly and it is 100% correct.  Let me break it down for you - 

 ""To be fair the 3 thirdway Democrats are considerably, by miles not inches, better than""

The third way Democrats are better than something.

 ""the Republicans in the far left of their party""

The thing that the third way Democrats are better than is the Republicans, even the Republicans in the 'far left' of the Republican party (the term 'far left' is used somewhat sardonically here). 

"" who are a regressive minority in a party of a majority illiberal fascists.""

The so-called 'far left' Republicans are actually regressives, but trivially less so than the outright fascists who comprise the majority of the party.  

In short, the writer notes that even the least regressive Republicans are far worse than even the least progressive Democrats.  I support progressive Democrats and want to see Pelosi removed as speaker, but I certainly agree.   

&#x200B;",h_lance,e98vvx7,SandersForPresident
"Sure, I used a lot of wonky vocabulary, so I’m assuming that is the issue, since your question wasn’t very specific.

Are you familiar with the Clinton’s “3 thirdway Democrats”?

Are you familiar with the term “regressive”?

Are familiar with the term “illiberal”?

",Pint_and_Grub,e98vhfx,SandersForPresident
And into the Senate walks Rick Scott. Thanks Florida ,Inlander,e998zbs,SandersForPresident
"I'm not even advocating for communism. Capitalism with social programs that protect workers works very well in Europe and could work very well for us, but the capital class has its hands in every part of our government and removing them would be very difficult, not to mention preventing them from creeping back in. I mean, we have a hard enough time as it is at convincing people to vote in their best interests.",slamdotswf,e9912xv,SandersForPresident
">I'm not exactly convinced that health-card == voter registration... I think that argument is specious at best.

Which was my point",SmokeSerpent,e99faq4,SandersForPresident
"Read the article. The suggestion the author is making that the GOP is against Medicare for all because this is the inevitable case, combined with automatic voter registration, which it isn't.",SmokeSerpent,e99zb0w,SandersForPresident
"Sure, but there has to be some kind of rule-based taxation. I'm sure there is a way to raise the funds, but it just doesn't seem that anyone has any idea how to actually do it.",dhighway61,e99vnbw,SandersForPresident
So are you arguing that the Republicans are going to push single payer? Or are you just trolling?,pilgrimboy,e99i3w2,SandersForPresident
"This. As an aerospace engineer not working in the defense industry, the F-35 is not a horrible system. It's just that contractors know how to burn money without any concerns, and the intricacies of modern fighters.",EuthanizeArty,e99v1l2,SandersForPresident
Appreciate it,Beefsoda,e99zsws,SandersForPresident
"None of which is spent on housing or food. Imagine if after paying rent/buying food for for the month you had $1200 to do whatever with. Then if you're stationed overseas you get more money, and if you deploy you don't pay federal taxes. Every year you get $400 for uniforms as well. Also don't have to pay for health insurance.",Beefsoda,e9ao1mt,SandersForPresident
"gotcha, thanks. ",royal23,e98w40l,SandersForPresident
i think its the run on sentence and the democrats/republicans/their party/party of fascists. you have 4 different potential subjects in one sentence.,royal23,e98vrpz,SandersForPresident
"Sorry, i wasn't trying to seem accusatory to you, Social safety nets, health care, education, and other 'socialist' policies are neccessary for 'capitalism' to not spiral out of control.

I totally agree with you. I didn't mean to come off as argumentative. ",morpheusmade,e992m6v,SandersForPresident
"I read it. I'm not sure if the GOP thinks this deeply about things, I always felt they just sway wherever the donors give them money, but at the same time I don't think it's completely out of the realm of possibility.

It's a pretty logical process of everyone getting a medical card to just making it an ID, especially if our neighbor to the north uses that system, and they're the first example people turn to of what it could be like.",ISieferVII,e9a08sk,SandersForPresident
"I can appreciate the F-35 for what it is as an engineering marvel. I’m sure it will wind up being a success for the next 30-40 years if it goes to plan.

I was referring mostly to the massive costs, but also that I see it as a new toy for the Pentagon. I was a training to run lathes and mills, and if I ever went into the manufacturing industry, personally I would not be able to work for a defense contractor. Too many idealogical and ethical questions. Gunsmithing I can give a pass to. Cluster bombs I can’t. 

I simply want to see less machines of war in the world. This is hopeless of course, but I still can’t forget what happened to the slightly older guys in my generation who were sent to the desert to die so Cheney could make a buck.",shagginwaggon66,e9bot85,SandersForPresident
Not once did I ever get $400 for uniforms. They just give them to you. ,DrewChrist87,e9ap9uu,SandersForPresident
"This exactly, Nancy Represents the worst of the clinton 3 thirdway Democrats. 

You understand this? 

To be fair the 3 thirdway Democrats are considerably, by miles not inches, better than the Republicans.

Better? 
 
The Republicans in the far left of their party who are a regressive minority in a party of a majority illiberal fascists.

Better? ",Pint_and_Grub,e98w5ee,SandersForPresident
"The US is a very different country, and for one, we have a very vocal minority in this country that views anything along the lines of a national ID as ""the mark of the beast"" and will fight it hard enough in most places to make it a difficult proposition. I'm in no way arguing that it isn't a rational thing to do or that it's a bad idea, I'm only arguing against the article's premise that it's a given if Medicare for all were to happen.",SmokeSerpent,e9azylp,SandersForPresident
"At least for the air force, it's an annual thing for uniform repair/replacement",Beefsoda,e9as0i2,SandersForPresident
"Okay, I think I see what you're saying now. Fair enough. Culturally, we've got some issues we need to work out. We need to work on critical thinking, science, logic, and efficiency, rather than what ""feels right. ",ISieferVII,e9b9dad,SandersForPresident
">We must stand up and fight for DREAMers and pass a DREAM Act that provides a path towards citizenship for these 800,000 young people.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/2002604926461168)",Chartis,e9bmu5e,SandersForPresident
Pelosi has to go!,silvertui,e9a6jpx,SandersForPresident
This would be so lovely for so many reasons. ,davidcstewart,e9b3mx3,SandersForPresident
Going with Pelosi again would be the definition of insanity.,penguished,e9akj3f,SandersForPresident
"Barbara Lee is the kind of leader we need. A fighter, someone with foresight (which she proved with her line vote against AUMF), and she is right on all the issues.
People we don’t need leading the party: anyone who goes from ‘resistance’ to ‘bipartisan marketplace of ideas’ when the other side is screaming that you are the devil coming to take their guns and funding immigrants here to come eat our babies (ie Republicans calling in to CSPAN radio). Bipartisanship requires two sides, and the republicans have no interest in it. ",juggersquatch,e9b4eb2,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I can't blame her for trying but I hope she doesn't get it",uberjim,e9atecl,SandersForPresident
"Also, whoever in the House campaign arm decided on the successful strategy of running on local / people's issues (healthcare, education, climate, etc.), instead of running as anti-Trump, deserves to rise in ranks.

Trump hasn't just lowered the bar for open corruption; he's been a complete enabler for the darkest wishes of the GOP, including the ravishing of the planet for short-term profit. As many have said, he's the product of the modern Republican party. And their biggest weakness is the unpalatability of their monstrous policy platform. Attack that and you've got a winner.",S3lvah,e9bbsrf,SandersForPresident
Is there anything us commoners can do to increase the chance of this happening?,teuast,e9blgr3,SandersForPresident
"Why?

What’s she done that so terrible?",Matthmaroo,e9bevek,SandersForPresident
"She's an obstacle to progress. She pushes back against progressive policy proposals and compromises with Republicans when she doesn't need to, and her voting record is 100% in line with the corporations who fund her. She's not representative of the new brand of progressive Democrats that took the House, and that's the biggest thing.",teuast,e9blelq,SandersForPresident
"Not all that won last night were liberals


It was a mix of moderates and progressives and a few conservatives democrats 


I think she’s about putting forward bills that can pass 


I think her idea is better a little then nothing 

The bills still have to pass the senate and have trump sign them

She’s not going to be the person really blocking progress  ",Matthmaroo,e9brs4i,SandersForPresident
">Across the United States, even in so-called ""red"" states, Americans recognize that in the wealthiest country in the history of the world, health care should not be a privilege for the rich. It's our job to make sure people who cannot afford health insurance are still able to get the care they need. Congratulations to Utah, Idaho and Nebraska which all just voted to expand Medicaid.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157442209317908)",Chartis,e9bi2zo,SandersForPresident
">Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns. One ad the Republicans put out was even rejected by Fox television because of its racist content. They used racist rhetoric to divide people and advance agendas that would harm the majority of Americans.

>In Florida, Andrew Gillum, whom I was proud to stand with even during the primaries, faced week after week of racism from his opponent and allied forces. That's just a fact. And in the end, I believe those craven attacks founded in ""fear of the other"" had an impact on the outcome. Stacey Abrams faced similar attacks, in addition to unprecedented voter suppression. That's a reality that has to change.

>It is our job now to continue to offer an alternative to the hate-filled agenda of Trump and Republican operatives. We need to offer a vision that all people, regardless of their race or country of origin, are part of a shared destiny as one people. We have to fight for the soul of our country at this critical moment. Part of that effort is to be honest about what our divisive opponents are trying to accomplish and how it is tearing at the very fabric of our democracy and our common humanity. We've got to continue doing everything that we can to fight all forms of racism.",Chartis,e9aymcf,SandersForPresident
"Love this. Good people fighting for love, equality, and progressive values.",RanLearns,e9b4y7w,SandersForPresident
">[The Sanders Institute Fellowship](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/fellows) is comprised of leaders dedicated to transforming our democracy through the research, education, outreach and advancement of bold, progressive ideas and values.",Chartis,e9b2pt9,SandersForPresident
"Any idea how I could reach out to him? For some reason, he's blocked me on Twitter. The only other people who've blocked me are anti-Bernie radicals.

\^ Just a personal issue, though – don't wanna put a damper on anything. Good for him to be part of the institute!",S3lvah,e9bd1p2,SandersForPresident
Congrats to Shaun!  He's one of the people who inspires me to make this country a better place for everyone.,Terrible_Inspection,e9byr0j,SandersForPresident
https://www.shaunking.org/contact,Chartis,e9bdf1q,SandersForPresident
">In too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.    

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1984322821622712)

---  

>The American people are saying, 'Enough is enough'...  

>* 97% of the American people support universal background checks...  
>* 83% of the American people indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases...  
>* 67% of the people polled by [Quinnipiac]( https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=2521) support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons...  
>* A [CNN poll]( https://ssrs.com/seven-in-10-favor-tighter-gun-laws/)... 70% of people want stricter gun laws...  
>* 87% support laws to prevent convicted felons and the mentally ill from owning guns...   
>* 71% support banning anyone under 21 from buying a gun...  
>* 63% support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines...  
>* 57% support an assault weapons ban...  
>* 56% say that stricter guns laws would reduce gun related deaths...  

>The American people are demanding that we have the courage to [stand up to the NRA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY) and finally take some action that will move us in the right direction...   

>* Universal background checks...  
>* Ending the so called 'Gunshow Loophole'...  
>* Addressing the so called 'Strawmen' purchases...  
>* Ban assault weapons...  
>* Any American that is suffering today from a mental health crisis should be able to get the mental health care they need now, not two months from now...   
>* If somebody is a stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is under a restraining order... that person should not be owning a gun...  

>In a bi-partisan way we can come together, do what the American people want us to do: Pass common sense gun safety legislation that is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLG2Xq6B-f4)  ",Chartis,e9b2a2n,SandersForPresident
"I think gun control is a losing issue relentlessly pushed by a corporate media that benefits from the constant conflict. Two things:

1. Cities with the strictest gun control laws have the highest incidents of violent crime (New York, Chicago, & Los Angeles). 

2. The government has never successfully banned anything. In fact, Prohibition only leads to lower prices and more supply.

Common sense things like the universal background checks and closing the gun show loophole make sense to me, but I don't know how anyone thinks a billion firearms will just disappear when the government decides. I don't see the benefit in pretending like black markets don't exist.
",BERNthisMuthaDown,e9ba703,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/political_revolution] [No need to wait: Newly elected Reps can join the Congressional Medicare For All Caucus; co-sponsor H.R.676 • r\/SandersForPresident](https://www.reddit.com/r/Political_Revolution/comments/9vgtb5/no_need_to_wait_newly_elected_reps_can_join_the/)

- [/r/wayofthebern] [No need to wait: Newly elected Reps can join the Congressional Medicare For All Caucus &amp; co-sponsor H.R.676 • r\/SandersForPresident](https://www.reddit.com/r/WayOfTheBern/comments/9vgv6k/no_need_to_wait_newly_elected_reps_can_join_the/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e9c2l3w,SandersForPresident
How many of them support it?,sasiralla,e9cxp2d,SandersForPresident
Beto isn't progressive enough. I hope he moves in that direction and possibly takes a look at running for president himself in a later election but 2020 should be all about Bernie. ,AbdullahSliceChop,e9cmv8t,SandersForPresident
"I would prefer Gabbard, Warren, Barbara lee or Nina Turner, I hate identity politics but it must be considered so I think a woman of colour would be a better running mate but of course first and foremost they must be a solid progressive.",TomBurcher,e9c2ht8,SandersForPresident
"[@shaunking:](https://twitter.com/shaunking/status/1060392777115164672)  


* Whoa. 

 As people waited for hours & hours to vote all over the counties that were strongest for Stacey Abrams - an investigation found that over 1,500 fully functioning voting machines were locked up by the state & unused. 

 This is voter suppression 101",Chartis,e9axpgj,SandersForPresident
Pelosi has to go,silvertui,e9a6lv4,SandersForPresident
"It's so refreshing to hear someone in congress speak with this candor.  One of the best outcomes from the 2018 election was having AOC and Rashida Tlaib win their seats.  I wonder if the democratic party will try to run anyone against these two progressives in 2020 and if so who will the media call the ""insurgent"" this time.",Antarctica-1,e9au0t7,SandersForPresident
"Candidate Trump already said he wanted to raise the minimum wage in the primaries.

Furthermore he already said he wanted to force medical companies to treat uninsured patients as part of their agreement to participate in the medical system. 

This part of his platform differed dramatically from previous and other republicans and is a big part of why he beat Bush and the others so easily.

He would have done it his first year if he had gotten ANY votes from willing demcrats. Instead they made up this russian collussion nonsense.

So to say he needs to be pushed into it becuase he is an opportunist is ridiculous.

He would love to do it. It was literally his platform.

You guys should have paid more attention intue republican primaries.

Trump isnt bush. Trump is very socially moderate.",Aszaszasz,e9bcjgi,SandersForPresident
">To the degree that Mr. Trump is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families in this country, I and other progressives are prepared to work with him. To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and anti-environment policies, we will vigorously oppose him.  

-[Senator Sanders](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-trump)  

>I know you'll all be *shocked* to learn, he lied. I know, hard to believe that he lied. [/s] He:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid  
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to the Social Security Disability fund  
>* is busy giving tax breaks to the wealthiest people in this country and the largest corporation while this cowardly President is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* [bows down to Putin] 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have after [he promised to provide health care to everybody](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6inQmf96SYQ)    
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner    

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOB-6n63N6Y&feature=youtu.be&t=1140)    

---  

In the he-said she-said between the Netherlands and [Russia](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-russia-sanctions/u-s-imposes-new-sanctions-on-russia-for-crimea-rights-abuses-idUSKCN1ND2S3), my goodwill favors the Dutch and we await the outcome of the independent investigation that may find this and other evidence constitutes further proof:  

>In April 2016, Fancy Bear accessed the Washington servers of the Democrats; Cozy Bear had done so as early as the summer of 2015. Once more, the group was caught red-handed by the Dutch... The information shared by The Netherlands about the hacks at the DNC ended up on the desk of Robert Mueller, the Special Prosecutor leading the FBI investigation into possible Russian interference in the American elections. As early as December, the New York Times reported that information from, among others, Australia, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands had propelled the FBI investigation.

-[NOS](https://nos.nl/nieuwsuur/artikel/2213767-dutch-intelligence-first-to-alert-u-s-about-russian-hack-of-democratic-party.html)

>Dutch spies determined that Cozy Bear was operated by Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service... witnessed the Russians breaking into servers owned by the Democratic National Committee  

-[de Volkskrant](https://www.volkskrant.nl/wetenschap/dutch-agencies-provide-crucial-intel-about-russia-s-interference-in-us-elections%7Eb4f8111b/)  

>The indictments announced today by the Justice Department confirm once again that Russia interfered in our elections to benefit Donald Trump. The fact that these indictments name 12 members of Russia’s military intelligence service strongly suggests that the interference was directed from the highest levels of the Russian government. It’s imperative that Special Counsel Mueller be allowed to continue his investigation free of pressure.  

-[Sanders Statement on Russia Probe Indictments](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-statement-on-russia-probe-indictments)

>The Senate must:  

>* Move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same  

>* Demand that the sanctions against Russia be fully implemented by the president  

>* Not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller

-[Sanders Resolution to Protect American Democracy from Russian Meddling](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-introduces-resolution-to-protect-american-democracy-from-russian-meddling)  

>Russia actively worked to influence our 2016 presidential election and continues to try and destabilize democracies around the world, including ours. 

-[Sanders Statement on Iran Sanctions Resolution](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-sanctions-resolution)    

>It is unacceptable for Russia to interfere in our elections here in the United States... There must be consequences for such actions.  

-[Sanders Statement on Iran and Russia Sanctions](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-and-russia-sanctions)

>It is a real political attack by Russia against the United States.   

-Bernie, [March 30^th '17](http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1703/30/wolf.01.html)  

> the evidence is now overwhelming that Russia interfered in the last election, and in doing that is undermining American democracy.  

-Bernie, [Oct 30^th '17](https://www.pscp.tv/NYCMayor/1LyGBRVrEnkGN?t=1494)

>At the end of the campaign... they played a really disgusting role because they don't believe in anything. All they want to do is sow division in this country, bring people against each other.   

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 21^st '18](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)  

>2016 election right here in the United States, where we now know that the Russian government was engaged in a massive effort to undermine one of our greatest strengths: the integrity of our elections, and our faith in our own democracy.  

-Bernie, [Sept 21^st '17](https://www.thenation.com/article/bernie-sanders-just-gave-one-of-the-finest-speeches-of-his-career)  

>It's a big deal. Bob Mueller was given the assignment of determining whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to undermine American democracy. And today is a major step forward with the indictment of Manafort.  

>I worry very much about the attacks we're seeing every day in a variety of ways, not only from the Russians.  

>Of all the issues and problems facing this country: Making sure we fight to protect and revitalize American democracy and take on all of those people who undermine what men and women fought and died to defend, that is our major task.  

-Bernie, [All Hallows' Eve '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=13&v=Omiw5pRojto)
",Chartis,e9bebd3,SandersForPresident
"Not sure wuat you want to do tuere.

Here is the fact.

If a large minority of democrats had come forward to propose  anythi g more moderate so trump didnt have to please the more right wing of the republican party then the economic policies  woukd be more moderate

Trump wanted a middle cpass tax cut. He uad to put through the tue tax cut for tue wealthy to get tuat through a republican majority. He wouldnt have if any democrats had come forward to vote for it.

Trump had proposed several years ago a one time large wealth tax to completely pay of the national debt back when it was small enough to actually do that.

Trump is very moderate.

There is no reason to fight with him and talk nonsense unless democrats dont really want to get anything done in the middle. That help no one.

The racist accusastions areridiculous as anyone who knows trumps backgrpund knows. Just stop with the nonsense and hyperbole. Stop tryingo froth your base and cause a ukraine style revolution for your banker buddies.",Aszaszasz,e9bfrlb,SandersForPresident
"Trump's TCJA costs [$9.5 trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/reports/53884-apb2019.pdf) over 10 years.  83% of what it enacted [goes to benefit the 1%](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/18/16791174/republican-tax-bill-congress-conference-tax-policy-center). 


Divided by the [97,600,000](https://www.fool.com/taxes/2017/03/14/how-much-does-the-average-american-pay-in-taxes.aspx) taxpaying members of the 99% (minus the $1,671/y that helps fund used programs), that results in an average $6,373/y per person being transferred to the 1%. A tithe of **$17.46 being paid every day** of the year by workers to those making [$719,000](https://www.ssa.gov/cgi-bin/netcomp.cgi?year=2017) or more.   

---  

[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1058122670515109888)

* It is not an exaggeration to say that [lives are at stake](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2017/jun/27/bernie-s/bernie-sanders-projection-thousands-added-deaths-g/) in this election.

 This is about whether tens of millions of Americans will keep their health care or whether Republicans will take it away.  

>28,000 people every single year could die as a result of that legislation and that is 9x more than the tragic losses we suffered on 9/11, *each and every year.*  

-Bernie Sanders, [July 9^th '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5K968MZk77I&feature=youtu.be&t=2959)


>No matter what lies Republicans are spreading on the campaign trail, they cannot ignore the truth: last year they tried to throw 23 million Americans off of health insurance and only failed by one vote, and have been working for years to remove protections for people with pre-existing conditions and to slash Medicare and Medicaid.

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157430400837908) ",Chartis,e9bfviq,SandersForPresident
come on people volunteer,silvertui,e9a6l8z,SandersForPresident
Think im busy protesting tyranny tomorrow,Pancakesandvodka,e99odz4,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/wayofthebern] [Pam Keith on Twitter: Calling all FL hands!!! We have tens of thousands of rejected absentee ballots that we can get perfected before the deadline tomorrow at 5pm, but we need YOUR help. Please send an email to. katharinepriegues@floridadems.org • r\/SandersForPresident](https://www.reddit.com/r/WayOfTheBern/comments/9v5s0x/pam_keith_on_twitter_calling_all_fl_hands_we_have/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e99lk7k,SandersForPresident
"I’m confused by this, what does it mean to perfect a ballot that have already been sent in?",relaxasaurus_maximus,e99pzd1,SandersForPresident
"""IT AIN’T OVER IN FL! We have thousands of absentee ballots that weren’t signed. We can fix that. We need help reaching those voters. Let Katharine know if you can help by sending her an “I want to help” at katharinepriegues@floridadems.org 

She will send you instructions""",RanLearns,e99s6ra,SandersForPresident
Especially if that progressive is Bernie Sanders!!!,TomBurcher,e9a9f87,SandersForPresident
">I am glad to hear that voters in three states voted to legalize marijuana, and one voted to decriminalize it outright. Millions of Americans have had their lives impacted by the federal prohibition on marijuana – arrests, convictions and even jail time. Even when people don’t go to jail, the criminal record they receive makes it harder for them to find a job, get housing or go to college. These harmful impacts are felt far more acutely in communities of color and poor communities because enforcement of marijuana laws is much stricter there than in more affluent, white communities. African Americans are four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana even though marijuana usage rates are basically the same across racial lines. Of course, marijuana prohibition is part of a larger failed war on drugs that has led to the great national crisis of mass incarceration. Some 1.5 million people were arrested for a drug related offense in 2016 – over 80 percent of which were for possession alone. We need to stop criminalizing addiction. We need to stop criminalizing recreational marijuana use. The actions voters made in states across the nation are a step in the right direction.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/2002471869807807)  ",Chartis,e9bir7m,SandersForPresident
"NY should have open primaries, same day voter registration, automatic voter registration, early voting. IIRC last primary they didn't have them right?",sasiralla,e9aws7h,SandersForPresident
A Green New Deal would be a good place to start,AlfalfaWolf,e9b33g8,SandersForPresident
"If they had any sense at all, this would have been an integral issue the party was campaigning on in the midterms. Instead, they conceded that the economy was indeed great, when in reality it is not working for millions of us.

Obviously they also ignored the elephant in the room that climate change could destroy our economy. The most expensive real estate in the country is on our coastlines. Rising sea levels could render them uninhabitable and spark a national refugee crisis.",AlfalfaWolf,e9b4aex,SandersForPresident
">Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net 
anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030

-[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)  

>To accomplish the key transitions. [Market-based action will not suffice](http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/climate-lab-book/files/2017/01/preind_fig5_updated2016.png)... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

>Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior...      

>As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a [job guarantee](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf) would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

-[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

>In the coming months I'll be working with fellow Senators to bring forth the most sweeping climate change legislation ever introduced in the Senate. We are in a crisis...  

-Bernie, [Oct 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/SkTTHop3DiI?t=176) ",Chartis,e9b3fba,SandersForPresident
"They spent two years, instead of doing this, running on ""we have to stop Trump and Russia""

If ""We have to stop Trump"" didn't work in 2016, how in the hell did they think it would possibly work this time?",robotzor,e9b4fa6,SandersForPresident
Climate change will damage the economy. Unfortunately too many do not believe that it exists and therefore are not open to solutions for said problem.,pablonieve,e9bki6l,SandersForPresident
"And in embarrassing fashion, they muted themselves on Russia in the month leading up to the midterms because after all of the commotion they still had nothing tangible on Trump.

The Democrats are inept in nearly every way possible. I think Wikileaks showed us that the dem primary was rigged. I think the actions that the Dems have taken since that revelation are showing that the entire political system is nothing more than predetermined theater. I only say this because the Democratic Party refuses to try to win. All they had to do was support these things:

Green New Deal,
Marijuana Legalization, and 
Higher minimum wage

I personally don’t think they even needed to support Universal Healthcare to win (although they most definitely should support it!). 
",AlfalfaWolf,e9b5qla,SandersForPresident
"12% of black men and 9% of black women voted for Scott over Nelson.

9% of black men and 18%???? of black women voted for DeSantis over Gillum, who is black.

In 2016, only around, 10% of black women voted for Trump over Clinton. 

Gillum loses by 0.62%, just over the margin of an automatic recount.

Bullshit. No wonder the NAACP is challenging this.",S3lvah,e9a5bj3,SandersForPresident
"well it seems suspicious.  but also you don't have esp.  these are numbers based on exit polls.  could be off.  

but should discrepancies in exit polls be investigated.  yeah i am more than OK with that.  

but if the only discrepancy is the demographics.  that might not be enough and it depends on the samples size of the exit poll that these numbers are based on.",StormalongJuan,e9ab3d0,SandersForPresident
Please STOP titles like THIS!,ReallyWeirdNormalGuy,e99tqf0,SandersForPresident
"Jesus Christ what a racist, black people are not a monolith.

Focus on Georgia, that's where the real Jim crow shit went down.",Zincoshine_2018,e9a5j4c,SandersForPresident
">I am pleased to hear progressive ballot initiatives at the state level passed across the nation that will move us toward a fairer and more just society. Minimum wage increases were passed in both Arkansas and Missouri, Medicaid expansion that will expand health care access to hundreds of thousands of people in Idaho, Nebraska and Utah also won, as well as many other initiatives. When we stand together, we win.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/2002470989807895)",Chartis,e9bay1g,SandersForPresident
[Join Our Revolution](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/),Chartis,e9798hc,SandersForPresident
He could've run against Jesus Christ himself and still won Vermont. They fucking love Bernie. ,BebopFlow,e97hzqy,SandersForPresident
"Congrats Bernie! 

Hopefully the Dems know what’s good for them in 2020 ",XZTALVENARNZEGOMSAYT,e970oa8,SandersForPresident
"*""Here's how Bernie can still win""*

This, but sincerely.",evdog_music,e975vnp,SandersForPresident
"Rigged, I tell you!!111 /s 

Reminder that Bernie wins his elections by wide margins among both democrats *and* Republicans. 

",lennybird,e974y25,SandersForPresident
"Wow I did _not_ expect that to happen. Must be the biggest electoral surprise since 2016!

",FightFromTheInside,e970ct6,SandersForPresident
I love when young political upstarts win against the odds!,Cuw,e973pxi,SandersForPresident
"If only EVERY state had a candidate with Bernie's honesty, integrity and plain good sense.  America really could be great.",merrileem,e97qm3k,SandersForPresident
"Grats Bernie.

This nation is fortunate to have a man of your character, guts, grit, values and rationality in public service.

To save this great nation from it’s self-destructive insanity, more of us  must rise up to emulate your example.  

Thanks for being such an inspiring example of true American spirit!
",Captain_Rational,e97ehoj,SandersForPresident
The nation loves Bernie.,JetsFanInDenver,e97mrxh,SandersForPresident
Hooray for Bernie Sanders!,cyanghost109-,e97o6qx,SandersForPresident
Congratulations on the least surprising victory of the night lol,MaximumGamer1,e97rw6v,SandersForPresident
[My reaction](https://i.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/facebook/000/027/475/Screen_Shot_2018-10-25_at_11.02.15_AM.jpg),rocasteven,e987vcz,SandersForPresident
"Just to reaffirm, but now that the House has flipped, he's the chair of the Ways and Means committee now, isn't he?",echisholm,e988gbg,SandersForPresident
This dude is my biggest hope for 2020. I think he is the only one who can beat Trump. ,shitposterdoc,e98e2gh,SandersForPresident
Also water is wet. Bernie is a goddam institution over there.,HereWeGoAgainTJ,e97uzr1,SandersForPresident
Can't we all just love Bernie? :D,Silas06,e97xenk,SandersForPresident
 He could've run against Jesus Christ himself and still won Vermont. They fucking love Bernie. ,VioletVenom,e98d1ha,SandersForPresident
"Win?  
More like DOMINATED.  


Expected nothing less.  
",SailorAviatrix,e98e671,SandersForPresident
No surprise here! Go Bernie -> 2020 #feelthebern,Laszlovich,e98mp0k,SandersForPresident
"If he runs for president, I hope he gets the support he deserves this time around.

If he doesn't run, I hope he throws his support behind a strong progressive candidate. ",KarthusWins,e98rrms,SandersForPresident
*Im not surprised motherfucker*,BigDizzle999,e97bcwz,SandersForPresident
The START OF THE BLUE WAVE!!!!!,marsglow,e974fli,SandersForPresident
**shock**,GreatAide,e97bgns,SandersForPresident
Obvy.,allthecatsintheworld,e97eh6u,SandersForPresident
I didn’t know he was up.,The_Bagel_Guy,e97zvq4,SandersForPresident
"Other breaking news, water is wet. ",ProdigiousPlays,e983vny,SandersForPresident
Well yeah. ,Watch45,e984nrw,SandersForPresident
"Yet again, the democrats lose Vermont. Bernie is obviously a splitting wrecker.",reflectioninternal,e98neqy,SandersForPresident
"I am happy for him to win it, but aren't only like 5% of votes counted at this point ? A bit early to call anything for sure.",Terrible_Penguin,e972tgh,SandersForPresident
"I was routing for Reid Kane, but Bernie is a decent second choice",pomcq,e97udws,SandersForPresident
[Or you could join Democratic Socialists of America instead](https://act.dsausa.org/donate/membership/) ;) ,pomcq,e97ugwv,SandersForPresident
I fucking love Bernie,whoknowsknowone,e97lnei,SandersForPresident
tbf Bernie has worked tirelessly in the senate to advocate for the American people. Jesus gets mad when you touch yourself. seems pretty clear to me who's the better candidate. ,lexcrl,e9821jr,SandersForPresident
They have a lot in common ,theghostecho,e97qcmf,SandersForPresident
I love fucking Bernie,AlabamaMayan,e98dke8,SandersForPresident
Bernie's wife here. I love fucking Bernie.,childroid,e98i5fc,SandersForPresident
But which of them would be more socialist? ,Teiresias666,e98funj,SandersForPresident
"Well, Jesus stopped helping the poor at the age of 33, whereas Bernie is still going, so...",explosivecupcake,e98n40a,SandersForPresident
The local news was calling the race before the polls even opened,iphoneluver,e98pfl7,SandersForPresident
"Virginia-er here, would trade Kaine for Bernie any day",campbellsouup,e98q7d5,SandersForPresident
"It matters more what we do than what they think. Forge the future. Educate, Organize, Mobilize.",Chartis,e97ndwo,SandersForPresident
"The 2020 primary races start **TODAY!!!** Nominate a democratic socialist candidate to challenge all Democrats who are up for re-election and start campaigning, right now. The Democratic party must be purged of neoliberals within the next 18 months.",Ramin_HAL9001,e97nxw6,SandersForPresident
"Oh, they don't.",BopTheDrass,e97m9ta,SandersForPresident
"They don't.  Call me crazy, but it looks like they are trying to push Biden on us.   ",BBQsauce18,e98ksu6,SandersForPresident
"They won't know what's good for then in 2020 unfortunately. They'll likely push for Biden, O'Rourke, etc. Anyone but Bernie.",Hokage4354,e98d2wm,SandersForPresident
Oh they won't. Hillary is prolly gonna try again. And pull even worse shit than last time. And we'll have Trump for a second term.,oneeyedhank,e987p8j,SandersForPresident
"I asked my conservative co-worker why he was voting for Bernie and he said that he preferred Bernie to an open election where another Democrat would win.  He thinks Bernie is harmless and a ""wasted blue seat"" because all his ideas and proposals never go anywhere :(",DrinkingZima,e97rxwc,SandersForPresident
Who could ever forget?,xxoites,e97rwvj,SandersForPresident
the real question is by how big of a margin,cuam,e970olf,SandersForPresident
Doesn't do much if the state sucks - from a Floridian,BringAltoidSoursBack,e984mdp,SandersForPresident
Congrats to the BernMan. We love you. ,PensiveObservor,e97p4c1,SandersForPresident
I read that in the Hooray Beer guys voice lol ,anomarlly,e97oka7,SandersForPresident
"If you check the map, he is a orange wave. Bernie Sanders is running as an Independent party.",NieBer2020,e979zq2,SandersForPresident
"When a news outlet projects a race, they take into account a lot of things, but the big one is exit polling data from voters after they've voted at the polls. When you find exit polling data showing an extremely wide margin of victory, it can be a pretty safe assumption to call a race for a given candidate. The Hawaii governor race was called this year for David Ige before the polls even closed. Obviously projections aren't always right, as we know from the 2000 election when Gore was projected to win over Bush, but they have a pretty good track record generally.",Gv8337,e97ri0c,SandersForPresident
Or [justice democrats ](https://www.justicedemocrats.com) Ocasio cortez is one ,EventuallyScratch54,e984py7,SandersForPresident
"I fucking love Bernie too.

",xxoites,e97rurj,SandersForPresident
"Ole Jay Naz probably wouldn't have cared if you wanked it.

It's the fuckers who wrote the bible that said it wasn't okay to Thrill your Willy.",JoseyGunner,e9869el,SandersForPresident
This fucking sub...,IamSwedishSuckMyNuts,e97xxtg,SandersForPresident
Jane Sanders? Is that you,Narrator2012,e98r56d,SandersForPresident
"So far I'm counting 42% voter turnout. Tallied to date, over 97 million people cast ballots and took legislative control over an oligarchic organization. Millions for the first time. We Kochblocked evil. The losses [prove that facade isn't enough.](https://twitter.com/carterforva/status/1060007470406529024) Substance counts, and that's a win in itself.

More progressives have been elected than ever before, and we're organized and building media too. Muslim women (who have hella progressive policies and reject corporate cash) and scientists are being elected as federal politicians. They came after Bernie HARD and he still got over 2/3rds of the vote.

Marijuana is legal all over the place. That's not supposed to be something that's even imaginable. [1.4 million Americans earned the right to vote again.](https://ourrevolution.com/press/our-revolution-statement-floridas-second-chances-victory/) A 15$ bill will be passed in the House before Easter that's going to shape in the mind of America that millions could be lifted out of poverty. Medicare For All has it's own caucus. College For All is part of the DNC platform. The war in Yeman is going to end.

This is what y'all did. I'm damn proud of you.

Trump hates what you did even more than he hates who you are. Kudos.

[A green new deal is coming.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be&t=176) And a job guarantee too that will shape this planet even more than when FDR introduced minimum wage.

You are earning a comfortable retirement, a future for humanity, and the sleep of purpose filled lives. You are my heroes. Thank you.

There are over 1000 public officers who are going to work tomorrow to represent the interests of the people because of our efforts since 2016.  

The bolder is rolling. That's what you did. That's victory. ",Chartis,e98hpwb,SandersForPresident
It'll be our job to make them.   Run more progressive candidates against the establishment and take them out. ,Tooneyman,e97mllk,SandersForPresident
Luckily your coworker is wrong!,Nonokraan,e97sobv,SandersForPresident
">He thinks Bernie is harmless and a ""wasted blue seat"" because all his ideas and proposals never go anywhere :(

the man single-handedly dragged the carcass of Medicare for All back into the spotlight and brought it back to life. It's genuinely impressive what he has been able to do as a lone wolf (until recently)",Minister_for_Magic,e98mwo2,SandersForPresident
lol your coworker is shortsighted.,lennybird,e986c0z,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, Medicare For All is really being ignored nationally, ain't it? Insurance companies are so much better. ;)",some_random_kaluna,e98h07x,SandersForPresident
80%+ in all likelihood ,ConceptualTrap,e971e79,SandersForPresident
Yeah I want to know that too. I didn't really pay attention to Bernie's race because I assumed he was safe lol. Do you know anything about his R opponent?,FightFromTheInside,e970u37,SandersForPresident
"67.4% versus 27.4% for Lawrence Zupan (R) according to the Guardian at the time I post this.

(edit: accidentally wrote 76.4 initially)",elihu,e97klz8,SandersForPresident
Or if you're in Texas,AdroitKitten,e98imkl,SandersForPresident
"I was looking at it earlier while thinking how astounding it is to see one man's independent ideas colour an entire state.  No matter it's size,  that is a powerful  picture! ",BeTheBern,e97dzg9,SandersForPresident
"Thank you for the informative answer, this is my first year being super into politics so when I was seeing results for various people going X wins! (1% votes tallied) I just figured it's clickbait nonsense.",Terrible_Penguin,e987ic3,SandersForPresident
"Those too, and a [union](https://aflcio.org/formaunion/contact) also, and [Progressives International](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/26/sanders-and-varoufakis-announce-alliance-craft-common-blueprint-international-new) soon.",Chartis,e98dep6,SandersForPresident
"Marylander here, love Bernie too.",110110,e980dyt,SandersForPresident
"Ooh, I love Revisionist Religion. It’s popular among millennials who are too “enlightened” for religion but still want to cling to their childhood imaginary friend.",PM_ME_YOUR_SUNSHINE,e989bo8,SandersForPresident
"They are both Jewish, men, and preaching a message that runs counter to a prevailing narrative despite the naysayers. Also, Bernie has been rumoured to be the son of God.",whatwatwhutwut,e988jvd,SandersForPresident
lol,gremlinguy,e9853h1,SandersForPresident
fuck jesus,EySeriouslyYouguys,e989ajp,SandersForPresident
Well said - very inspiring!,Angry_Architect,e98nd9y,SandersForPresident
I think it's clear they don't give a shit what we think. Plus they got big money and low info voters on lock.,BopTheDrass,e97msva,SandersForPresident
That sort of assumes the existence of a wide range of progressive candidates being available tho,zappadattic,e97w3ny,SandersForPresident
"I'm not necessarily saying that I support this approach but, for better or worse, like it or not, I know one phrase (in the form of a hashtag) that will make the DNC establishment think long and hard... *#BernieOrBust.*  

And even if people are less likely to follow through on that threat this time around... if the DNC party elites try to prop up a corporate establishment candidate, even one that talks a good game, they will come out of the primaries pretty banged up.  That's a guarantee -- like it or not, for better or worse.  

SO... the Democratic party needs to get behind a solid, reliable, well-liked, and experienced progressive.  Namely, they need to get ready to throw their weight behind Bernie.  Because he's coming, we need him, and he will win.  ",NihiloZero,e97v76c,SandersForPresident
"Businessman and real estate broker. Focuses his attention on the economy and lowering taxes. Seems to be a somewhat moderate Republican who doesn't talk much about abortion or ""religious freedom"". He lost by over 40 percentage points.",chocoboat,e97j9g0,SandersForPresident
[Results](https://i.imgur.com/lAblbbx.png),Bryanfisto,e989ota,SandersForPresident
no clue,cuam,e9716l8,SandersForPresident
Australian here. I fucking love Bernie too. ,Toni_PWNeroni,e9896v1,SandersForPresident
"Floridian here :(

I love Bernie and I wish he was our president.",Joelico,e98blwm,SandersForPresident
"Ooh, I love Reddit Literalists. It’s popular among millennials who are too “enlightened” to understand humor, but still want to cling to their arrogance and perceived superiority.",JoseyGunner,e98alaz,SandersForPresident
"It is definitely an apt comparison. One of the things that Jesus was most well known for was healing the sick and mentally ill. He often preached about rich people giving to poor people. He even went so far as to say ""it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to get into God's kingdom."" In fact, Jesus said that the ""great commandment” was to love one’s neighbor as oneself, which I believe is a principle that democratic socialism is built on.",In1micus,e98c5hy,SandersForPresident
Also an interest in carpentry as a side gig. ,ASMRScotsman,e989yxe,SandersForPresident
Politics are a long game. If you're not willing to play the long game. You will never win. Bernie Sanders ran three times. Three times before he finally won as the mayor in Vermont. You think this shit is easy when you're up against a machine designed to crush you. Revolutions happen in time. You want a political revolution. Fight for it. ,Tooneyman,e97nmik,SandersForPresident
"Michigander here, I fucking love Bernie too.",Mine_Menace,e98at0z,SandersForPresident
"There's definitely a case to be made for that perspective, but there's also some... Very contrary accounts out there as well. I believe it's the prosperity gospel or something like that? Essentially, wealth comes to those who deserve it. As does physical well-being.

It's only really logical if you ignore broad swaths of the Synoptic Gospels.",whatwatwhutwut,e98h6mp,SandersForPresident
Do you really feel like we have a long time? The dying oceans are a ticking clock.,Ibespwn,e98aecn,SandersForPresident
"Just some random guy from the Internet, I fucking love Bernie too. ",systembusy,e98bpp3,SandersForPresident
"I mean, what defines “deserve” though? Exploiting your country men and constantly pursuing more wealth is pretty contrary to anything Jesus would have preached",PiousLiar,e98p2u6,SandersForPresident
"I will admit that I know very little of Jesus and his teachings, but it does seem like there are some superficial similarities.",In1micus,e993h5h,SandersForPresident
Which is why you fight harder.,some_random_kaluna,e98gv3l,SandersForPresident
"Checking in from Ireland, much love for Bernie. Still have a pair of the Bernie briefs ",BeyondThePaleAle,e98g4m7,SandersForPresident
"As I said, it requires conscious ignorance of most of the new testament.",whatwatwhutwut,e991kor,SandersForPresident
Ah I wasn’t sure which way you meant that ,PiousLiar,e995frr,SandersForPresident
I really hope he runs in the primary. ,DrewChrist87,e9amj6w,SandersForPresident
Who will announce first Bernie or liz... they say the advantage goes to the one who announces first,4now5now6now,e9azdjb,SandersForPresident
">Democrats lost more than 1,000 seats across the country under the centrist, pro-corporate leadership of Nancy Pelosi, and now it's time for a new direction. It's time for a true progressive to lead the Democratic Party at a time when Americans need a fighter.

>That person is Barbara Lee. Her bold anti-war record and support for Medicare for All are just two of many reasons why she should be the new leader of the Democratic Party.

>Sign this petition, and let Democratic Party leadership know you're ready for a new direction. ",Amenta101,e99sjq0,SandersForPresident
"[Secular Talk on Twitter: ""Sign this petition to make Barbara Lee the speaker of the house! She was the ONLY member of congress to vote no on authorizing the Iraq War. She's a hero and a true leader""](https://twitter.com/KyleKulinski/status/1060375761016774656)",Amenta101,e99shnx,SandersForPresident
down with Pelosi! Down with Dinos,silvertui,e9a6mj7,SandersForPresident
">""I could fire everybody right now, but I don't want to stop it because, politically, I don't like stopping it,"" Trump said. 

>""I let it just go on,"" he added. ""They're wasting a lot of money, but I let it go on because I don't want to do that.""

>""It's a disgrace, frankly, and it's an embarrassment to our country.""

>Republicans have ripped the probe as being politically motivated, but have urged Trump not to put an end to it before Mueller makes his conclusions known.

>#**Mueller's team has indicted or secured guilty pleas from 32 people and companies so far.**

",ModsAreTrash1,e99i5en,SandersForPresident
Indivisible Guide (organization of former congressional staffers) is now also joining the protest: https://twitter.com/IndivisibleTeam/status/1060300683080024064,LudovicoSpecs,e99a1kj,SandersForPresident
"Your Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer are about as inspiring (and useful) as Neville Chamberlain. Best of luck America, if they are the leaders of your ""resistance"". You're going to need it. ",geeked_outHyperbagel,e9an9x0,SandersForPresident
Yo what's up with the bars having been manipulated?!,solidwhetstone,e98w5yy,SandersForPresident
"What this really says is that based on the senate election results for these particular senators, Bernie did better percentage wise than other speculated 2020 POTUS candidates",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e990pzw,SandersForPresident
"Thanks! I'll add it to such other such good signs:  

* [Bernie is polling strongest against Trump](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JDrLXcAAI4tL.png)  
* [Bernie is damn popular with consitutents](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JGWzWwAAqptt.jpg)
* [Bernie crushes the competition when it comes to capturing and driving online interest](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JHhbWwAApurW.jpg)  
* [Bernie overwhelmingly drives youth engagement](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqVYCrhX4AA3jV5.jpg)
* [Bernie is damn popular nationally](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JE63XgAAMy9w.jpg)  
* [Black voters love Bernie ](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/posteverything/wp/2017/09/12/its-time-to-end-the-myth-that-black-voters-dont-like-bernie-sanders/?utm_term=.fc5bdf25bba5)",Chartis,e99lsex,SandersForPresident
What poll was this?,nphased,e98uz4x,SandersForPresident
I'm just having nightmares now about how Trump is going to take this and try to make this into how he got more votes than Sanders somehow. That's all that really matters. Lmao. That guy is killing me,Onlymeinmi,e9acjd6,SandersForPresident
I don't care about percentage when the number difference is that great. 180k compared to over 3 million.,mancubbed,e995gxk,SandersForPresident
"It's easier to win when you represent a small state with less diverse demographics.

Sanders might win Vermont but he couldn't win Georgia or Floria in the Primaries, both states with millions of people and a diverse demographic.",jagd_ucsc,e9946ex,SandersForPresident
"It's not manipulation, it's lazy photoshop. The point of the graphic is to put the numbers side by side, so OP couldn't be arsed to correct for the size of the bars. ",Teiresias666,e99qi2m,SandersForPresident
Yeah that’s what I wanted to say. ,asiasbutterfly,e9921hw,SandersForPresident
Their margin in the election ,asiasbutterfly,e98vof1,SandersForPresident
"Percentage is what wins the elections, not just total number of votes. By your logic the most populous state is the only one that would ever matter.

You can extrapolate from this, and other polls, that Sanders is much more popular among independents and even republicans than democrats. Larger percentages of them switch to his side, which is how he won the biggest landslide in the senate at the same time that a republican won the governors race in vermont by a comfortable margin.

",The_Popular_Populist,e996i66,SandersForPresident
"Define ""diverse demographic""",BopTheDrass,e9967zh,SandersForPresident
"This makes no sense dude. A republican governor won decisively the same time that Sanders did, meaning huge numbers of republicans split their ticket to vote for him. Do you think getting large numbers of republicans to vote for you would be helpful in a general election?

""Yeah but he didn't win the primary!!!"" The one where they cheated and stacked the deck against him? So what?",The_Popular_Populist,e996873,SandersForPresident
Haha I did it on Pic Collage on my phone,asiasbutterfly,e99w1j7,SandersForPresident
"My logic is not that biggest numbers matter, but comparing such large differences and saying the percentage matters is illogical. 

You can't extrapolate anything from this except that Sanders is popular in Vermont. That does not mean his appeal is universal across the US.",mancubbed,e996s0u,SandersForPresident
"Ain't a lot of minorities in Vermont. Plus it doesn't have that much diversity in terms of industries, either. Basically Bernie doesn't have to deal with balancing between a lot of different voter coalitions.",jagd_ucsc,e997ksr,SandersForPresident
"They didn't cheat though. Sanders just did not have the sway in the southeast as he did in the Midwest, especially with minorities.

I admit Vermont elected a Republican governor, but Vermont has always been a rather Mavericky state that is pretty unique. You could argue lots of New England states are like that. It's not a coincidence that the Senate's two independents are both from the area.

Compare to Florida, where there are lots of retirees who you only have to whisper the word ""socialism"" in their ear and they go into a frothing rage. I even have some in my family. And their demographic *always* votes (and somehow never seem to have problems being purged by the rolls).
",jagd_ucsc,e996o52,SandersForPresident
"It's also more likely that Democrats crossed over for the Republican. Are you going to argue that Elizabeth Warren is appealing to Republicans just because Charlie Baker won in conjunction with her? The only time where that might have happened last night was Sherrod Brown, who has immense cross-aisle popularity in Ohio, from what I hear.",geothizer,e99iffk,SandersForPresident
"The point is that he has massive cross over appeal with republicans and independents in a way that no other candidate does, which is why he won such a wide margin in a state that is significantly less democratic than NY, where Gillibrand won. 

Also he is extremely popular with his constituents. The people who know him best love him.

Nationwide, he has the highest favorability ratings of any active politician.

https://news.gallup.com/poll/243539/americans-maintain-positive-view-bernie-sanders.aspx",The_Popular_Populist,e997pdu,SandersForPresident
Bernie does better in polls with minorities than white people though,BopTheDrass,e99a9n4,SandersForPresident
"""They didn't cheat though.""

So you don't think its cheating to give one of the candidates the debate questions ahead of time, or only have a fraction of the debates the republicans had, or close polling stations in college campuses, or overide parliamentary procedure at the Nevada Caucus or xyz.

They cheated immensely, thats what the entire wikileaks thing proved. That's no longer in dispute.

He May have still lost because he did better in the midwest than the south, but they also still cheated.",The_Popular_Populist,e9982ml,SandersForPresident
"Am I understanding this correctly? 

You are arguing that Sanders, who won by the widest margin of any senator including Sherrod Brown, got fewer cross over republicans than Sherrod Brown Brown, who, (to his credit) also won during an election where a republican governor won his state, even though Ohio's republican won by much less than Vermont's?

That's pretty much mathematically impossible. ",The_Popular_Populist,e99k94t,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, again no one is doubting the point. The problem is this graph is illogical and means nothing. It's basically just a ""if we frame the numbers like this Sanders looks best"". ",mancubbed,e997v3i,SandersForPresident
"Unfortunately, as we've seen, polls are not the be-all-end-all of elections. Results matter, and the results of the Primaries showed he got crushed in the South. The main factor being the black vote, which he lost by 50% or more in many states.",jagd_ucsc,e99h3ys,SandersForPresident
It's not mathematically impossible considering that Republicans make up a large proportion of Ohio than they do of Vermont. Obama got a point and half less than Sanders in the 2012 election and a roughly equal margin in the 2008 election. ,geothizer,e99kw3y,SandersForPresident
I don't understand why the graph is illogical. It suggests he's really good at winning independents and republicans in a way that no other democrat comes close to doing. Thats what it means for him to have the widest margin of victory.,The_Popular_Populist,e998bqa,SandersForPresident
He had much less name recognition in the early southern primaries,BopTheDrass,e99lqd7,SandersForPresident
"The frustrating thing about being a Sanders supporter is no matter how well he does, the bar is always moved afterwards to justify ignoring his accomplishments.

This poll is a month old and 1/4 of republicans nationwide have a favorable view of Sanders. https://news.gallup.com/poll/243539/americans-maintain-positive-view-bernie-sanders.aspx

This poll shows he has the highest approval rating of any incumbent senator among his incumbents.

https://morningconsult.com/2018/10/10/americas-most-and-least-popular-senators-10-10/",The_Popular_Populist,e99o7za,SandersForPresident
"I don't doubt that Sanders is popular among his constituents. But Vermont is a small, (mostly) white, liberal state that is not indicative of the primary or general electorate. It's worth noting that Clinton had a similar approval ratings to Sanders two years before losing and after already having been a national candidate and going through much more BS than Sanders had to deal with.",geothizer,e99pp8p,SandersForPresident
"

>Sanders said he hears from supporters almost daily who are telling him to run. 

>""The United States right now is in the middle of a severe crisis and you have to call it what it is"" 

>take on Wall Street, address the “collapse” of the middle class, tackle the spread of poverty and fiercely oppose cuts to Social Security and Medicare. Also, addressing global warming needs to be a top priority  

-Nov 15 '13 [Sanders Wants Progressive 2016 Presence:
Americans are willing to listen to a populist message like his, senator says](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/durangofoodnotbombs/krTQwuzjW3g)

---

>* Life expectancy for women has declined over the past 20 years in 313 U.S. counties.  
>* People in the highest income group can expect to live, on average, at least 6.5 years longer than those in the lowest income group.  
>* Adult men and women who have graduated from college can expect to live at least 5 years longer than people who have not finished high school.  
>* In 2009, the mortality rate for African American infants was over twice that of white infants.
>* As a nation we have 6 million more people living in poverty than we did in 2004.
>* In the United States in 2000, 133,000 people died due to poverty.  

>Reducing poverty in America is a major challenge, that will require efforts on many fronts. Because disparities in health care access and utilization exist even after controlling for insurance coverage, ensuring access to health coverage for all is an important step, but will not by itself solve the problem. Addressing non-financial barriers to health, such as transportation, child care, primary school education, and safe housing, to name a few, must be considered when discussing efforts to improve health for millions of low-income Americans.

>At a time when the numbers of people dying in this country due to poverty rival that of those dying of preventable diseases, more attention must be paid to socioeconomic disparities.

-Sen. Sanders, Sept 13^th '11: [The Human Cost of Socieconomic Disparities.](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/IsPovertyADeathSentence.pdf) 

---

>There is very little discussion about these major crises, and even less discussion about ideas that can resolve these issues.

>And this is not just a crisis within the political establishment -- it’s certainly a crisis within the media establishment, because media seems to be far more concerned about looking at politics as a game, or looking at personality and celebrity life.  

>1. The growing disparity in income and wealth that exists in America. We are in a situation where we have not been since the late 1920s, before the Depression, where the top 1% owns 38% of the financial wealth of America, while the bottom 60% – six zero – owns 2.3% of the wealth in America. That is obscene beyond belief. 95% of all new income in this country went to the top 1%.

>  It is very dangerous to our political system. Because big money interests are putting huge amounts of money into the political process through Citizens United. And these are issues that have got to be addressed, or else in my view the United States will move very rapidly toward an oligarchic form of society when our economic and political life is controlled by a handful of billionaires.  

>  I see this as a huge moral issue, an economic issue, a political issue. There is virtually no discussion about that, virtually none. I don’t know how we can be a serious nation when this issue is not front and center, and there are not real ideas out there on how we address it.  

>2. Global warming is man-made, that it is already causing disastrous problems, and that those problems will only get worse in years to come -- that we have almost no movement at all, virtually no movement in Congress on this planetary crisis.

>3. Cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid: inside the Beltway, in the political establishments, there is support for cuts to those terribly important programs.

-Bernie, Nov 27^th '13: [Why I might run](https://www.salon.com/2013/11/27/bernie_sanders_why_i_might_run_in_2016/)",Chartis,e98guk9,SandersForPresident
"^*whispers* ^and ^make ^Beto ^VP.

What? Who said that?",neurocentricx,e98g6ht,SandersForPresident
"This may not be a popular opinion but I just really really want 100% support from the Bernie crowd or none at all. I don't want this to lose steam so if this is serious let's see it, I personally am waiting to be convinced of a candidate that can take on Trump's bravado. ",Person_On_The_Web,e99aapy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e98tu97,SandersForPresident
"If he runs I'll be there to knock doors, make calls, and push for Bernie 2020 in every way I can. He's the first politician I donated money to and by FAR the best choice.

If the Democrats run Joe Biden (or another corporate shill Democrat) I will vote for Trump. I couldn't bring myself to do that in 2016, but I will in 2020 if it's my only choice. Mainstream Democrats need to wake up to the corruption before we get someone as evil as Trump who is as well spoken as Obama.",LegitimateWrap,e98jy94,SandersForPresident
"As nice as that'd be I feel Beto should actually shoot for a position with some influence.

Unfortunately/fortunately all VP is in todays world is a way to secure a   majority of electoral college votes from a valuable but not guaranteed state. ",InsulinDependent,e98t4nj,SandersForPresident
"Nah, Ro Khana, Nina Turner, Tulsi Gabbard, Elizabeth Warren for Vp",H-E-L-L-M-O,e98u6rc,SandersForPresident
"[Bernie 58%  Trump 38%](https://imgur.com/a/xaD1Q)

Bernie has been calling him a pathological liar since before he won the election. Here was maybe one of the first times:

> ""I hesitate to say this because I don’t like to disparage public officials, but Donald Trump is a pathological liar.""

> ""He’s going to pay the legal fees of somebody who committed a terrible act of violence. What that means is that Donald Trump is literally inciting violence with his supporters. He is saying that if you go out and beat somebody up, that is OK…

> ""That is an outrage, and I would hope that Mr Trump tones it down big time, and tells his supporters that violence is not acceptable in the American political process.""

- Bernie: March 13, 2016",RanLearns,e99kkxq,SandersForPresident
"One of the things I asked his office was “if Bernie runs, can we get an announcement like last time, and if not, can he let us know who he supports ASAP so the community knows what to do/where to  step up for *his* choice?”

Then we can be Sanders’ (Pick) for President ",IrrationalTsunami,e98kqkn,SandersForPresident
">If the Democrats run Joe Biden (or another corporate shill Democrat) I will vote for Trump.

You've got the wrong idea on this. I think it would be reasonable to not vote for Joe Biden (I wouldn't vote for Joe Biden either), but voting for Trump is not at all reasonable. You might as well be a neo-Nazi if you're going to vote the same way a neo-Nazi votes.",spacecyborg,e98kfn1,SandersForPresident
"I'd love to hear later today he's running, but I think it probably makes more sense for him to wait 6-9 months. There will likely be a lot of news about the Mueller investigation, and other stories which would detract from such an early campaign. 

It also gives the other side (see Republicans AND Democrats) more time to try every avenue to 'prove' he isn't a 'viable' candidate if he announces this early. ",LegitimateWrap,e98ll4r,SandersForPresident
"> voting for Trump is not at all reasonable
> You might as well be a neo-Nazi 

I really don't appreciate the tone. I explained exactly why I hold my position, perhaps you could do the same? 

> Mainstream Democrats need to wake up to the corruption before we get someone as evil as Trump who is as well spoken as Obama.
",LegitimateWrap,e98l6de,SandersForPresident
"Why do people like you not realize that this divisive tone only serves to hurt you? Associating people with nazis just for voting for Trump only makes them angrier, and pushes them farther away from you.",NastyNas0,e98shg9,SandersForPresident
"Not that I disagree, but I think like any negotiation, we should start aggressive. 

Maybe he is thinking 9 months, and our efforts push it to 6. Or 6 to 4. ",IrrationalTsunami,e98mbai,SandersForPresident
">I explained exactly why I hold my position, perhaps you could do the same?

You never explained why you think Trump would deserve your vote.

My position is this: If Joe Biden is not a good enough candidate to vote for (and I don’t think he deserves my vote), then Trump deserves my vote even less. Trump is worse than Biden on every issue I care about. 

Do you know what you can do in that situation? You can not vote for either one of them. You could vote for a third party candidate you actually like or just not vote. I want to avoid that situation for myself, which is why I’m all in on Sanders 2020.",spacecyborg,e98mdz2,SandersForPresident
">Why do people like you not realize that this divisive tone only serves to hurt you? Associating people with nazis just for voting for Trump only makes them angrier, and pushes them farther away from you.

I'll stop associating Trump voters with Nazis when Trump stops associating with Nazis.",spacecyborg,e98smdg,SandersForPresident
"I see your point, but I don't think we need to negotiate with Bernie. It seems overwhelmingly likely he will run in 2020 to me, and I want him to announce when it will have the biggest impact. 

Because I believe the Democrats will use their subpoena power to dig into Trump/Russia connections, and his taxes etc. It's likely unless they uncover a 'smoking gun', that whatever they do will just embolden Trump supporters, and it would hurt Bernie to be associated with all of this as the primary enemy for them. (in my opinion)

I want people to hear 'Bernie Sanders' and think:

* Bernie will try to stop those [18 million Yemenis](https://www.unog.ch/unog/website/news_media.nsf/\(httpNewsByYear_en\)/27F6CCAD7178F3E9C1258264003311FA?OpenDocument) from starving to death.
* Bernie will end [chronic homelessness](https://berniesanders.com/issues/fighting-for-affordable-housing/)
* Bernie will move to end [corruption and money in politics](https://berniesanders.com/issues/money-in-politics/)
* Bernie will [end unnecessary wars](https://berniesanders.com/issues/war-and-peace/) and reign in military spending
* Bernie will make [tuition free at public colleges and universities](https://berniesanders.com/issues/its-time-to-make-college-tuition-free-and-debt-free/) (for less money than we're **increasing** the military budget by in 2019)
* Bernie will do tons of other things, all of which 50%+ of the US population supports",LegitimateWrap,e98qrt9,SandersForPresident
"I still feel I did explain why he deserves my vote, but I'll try to break it down for you in a different way. 

1. The system is corrupted by 'corporate shills' who masquerade as liberals within the Democratic party
2. Voting for these 'corporate shills' props up the current system, which is rotten to the core. This kicks the can down the road, until 'Hitler 2.0' gets a chance to abuse the rotten system.
3. Voting for Trump won't lead to 'Hitler 2.0', but his well-spoken successor could be if we don't address the corruption and reign in executive privilege/power

> Do you know what you can do in that situation? You can not vote for either one of them. You could vote for a third party candidate you actually like or just not vote.

I would be willing to vote for a 3rd party, but I won't choose not to vote. The Democrats by and large are part of a 'liberal bubble' which needs to be shattered so we can move forward, I'm sorry if the hammer to do that is Trump. I hope it isn't. 

*edit my list was broken",LegitimateWrap,e98nm52,SandersForPresident
"They vote for Trump because they are angry. (In many cases, their anger is perfectly valid). Associating normal Trump voters with nazis will only make Trump voters angrier. Trump feeds off of that anger, you are helping him.",NastyNas0,e98ues1,SandersForPresident
"My mother taught 2 things (actually a lot): always negotiate and never pay full retail price. 

I think we’re agreed on the end goal, and I respect your opinion that being agitators may not be the *best* way forward. ",IrrationalTsunami,e98rgde,SandersForPresident
"Sure, but if that's the route you want to go I'd like to argue it would be better to negotiate about his platform, rather than his announcement date. You're of course free to your own opinion!

Also a minor nitpick I do actually think being agitators is the best way forward, but we need to agitate complacent Democrats or Independents who 'vote blue no matter who'. The type of corruption Trump seems to be guilty of (including Russiagate) doesn't seem totally out of ordinary for Washington D.C. and if we pretend it is, Democrats will lose while Republicans laugh. ",LegitimateWrap,e98slvt,SandersForPresident
"Agitators about this specific thing then. :)

I’ll see your argument about his date and platform and say “why not both?” I don’t expect him to jump in firmly stuck on details. ",IrrationalTsunami,e98svz1,SandersForPresident
Bernie really needs to do better addressing these sort of things. Ouch.,EcoSoco,e9ator4,SandersForPresident
"Bernie on Twitter: [Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns.](https://twitter.com/berniesanders/status/1060589573653311488?s=21)

>Let me be absolutely clear: Donald Trump, Brian Kemp and Ron DeSantis ran racist campaigns. One ad the Republicans put out was even rejected by Fox television because of its racist content. They used racist rhetoric to divide people and advance  agendas that would harm the majority of Americans. 

>In Florida, Andrew Gillum, whom I was proud to stand with even during the primaries, faced week after week of racism from his opponent and allied forces. That's just a fact. And in the end, I believe those craven attacks founded in ""fear of the other"" had an impact on the outcome. Stacey Abrams faced similar attacks, in addition to unprecedented voter suppression. That's a reality that has to change.

>It is our job now to continue to offer an alternative to the hate-filled agenda of Trump and Republican operatives. We need to offer a vision that all people, regardless of their race or country of origin, are part of a shared destiny as one people.  We have to fight for the soul of our country at this critical moment.  Part of that effort is to be honest about what our divisive opponents are trying to accomplish and how it is tearing at the very fabric of our democracy and our common humanity. We've got to continue doing everything that we can to fight all forms of racism.",gideonvwainwright,e9b7ezd,SandersForPresident
"I agree it was not especially well phrased, but a.) the article makes his intent with this statement rather clear, and b.) the Daily Beast’s intended purpose with turning that quotation into the headline is also quite obvious. Now, that will not stop a bunch of concern trolls from blowing this up based off the headline, but the most objectionable issue here is declining to refer to prejudice as racism, and the political justifications for avoiding that equation are rather understandable.",liamliam1234liam,e9axil0,SandersForPresident
"This is a hit piece. 

[What @BernieSanders actually said was DeSantis, Kemp and Trump ran explicitly racist campaigns. ""Gillum ran a great campaign and he had to take on some of the most ugly and blatant racism that we have seen in many, many years.""](https://twitter.com/jmillerlewis/status/1060567074068676611?s=21)

[Here is the audio of the relevant portion of @BernieSanders's interview with @thedailybeast:](https://twitter.com/jmillerlewis/status/1060569225822158850?s=21)

>[You need to hear the entire thing. The question was about possible FIRST TIME AA Governors (Gillum/Abrams) facing ""race oriented"" campaigns from the gop. First Bernie says to use the word ""racist"" rather than ""race oriented"".  He acknowledges the candidates faced terrible racism.](https://twitter.com/mattielisbon/status/1060613040377188352?s=21)

>[He  praises Gillum's campaign & says he faced terrible racism. He then addresses the orig question about FIRST TIME AA Govs, which is that some white people may have been leery about voting for an AA gov for the first time, but that he thinks this will be easier next time around.](https://twitter.com/mattielisbon/status/1060613449619726336?s=21)

>[He then praises Abrams and says he hopes all the votes are counted. In another interview he offered to show up and help if he could, in terms of getting the votes counted. He FULLY ACKNOWLEDGES RACISM in the election, and also says some non-racists may have had a problem as well.](https://twitter.com/mattielisbon/status/1060613946598580224?s=21)",gideonvwainwright,e9b6nc3,SandersForPresident
It’s misquoted. This is a hit piece.  I just linked to the audio. ,gideonvwainwright,e9b6qc0,SandersForPresident
See? I’m not the only one!,IrrationalTsunami,e98xo2a,SandersForPresident
Bernie/Beto 2020 sure does have a nice ring to it. :),Green_Day_Fan,e99rows,SandersForPresident
I bet these conversations include Warren and Merkley. ,EcoSoco,e9928x2,SandersForPresident
But you guy's he's too old. We need to come together and support Joe Biden!,BopTheDrass,e99m1vf,SandersForPresident
He and Beto together will be awesome together. Two charisma characters that can't be beaten. ,THIS_IS_SO_HILARIOUS,e99jl8q,SandersForPresident
"I'm no expert on battleground state polling, but still strongly hoping for Tulsi Gabbard being involved. I'll never forget that she's still the only speaker who stood strong for Bernie at the June 2016 DNC, and didn't so much as breathe Hillary's name. Personally would love to also see Nina Turner or Cornel West.",vh_dan,e99o9zj,SandersForPresident
Khanna?,IrrationalTsunami,e993r05,SandersForPresident
That’s some high quality sarcasm right there. ,IrrationalTsunami,e99mmot,SandersForPresident
lol,silvertui,e9a6nrc,SandersForPresident
You just want to keep all that universal healthcare to yourselves.,firemage22,e99szjx,SandersForPresident
[“I’m so fucking proud of you guys!”](https://youtu.be/Khzpt2d0MpY),IrrationalTsunami,e99mkey,SandersForPresident
"I certainly appreciate Beto's original policy positions, but I agree with TYT that subtly backing away from universal healthcare, and waffling a bit on being more aggressive during his debates, were no bueno.",vh_dan,e99o4b9,SandersForPresident
West is problematic considering he called Obama an Uncle Tom. ,IrrationalTsunami,e99onkp,SandersForPresident
"I don't think he was considering a run, but who knows.",EcoSoco,e995cr7,SandersForPresident
"That is a great clip, though!",vh_dan,e99o4tk,SandersForPresident
"He seems the least likely of all of them, but I've generally appreciated his viewpoints and panel discussions.",vh_dan,e99orn3,SandersForPresident
I meant as VP. ,IrrationalTsunami,e995upd,SandersForPresident
"I could see that, but I think Warren or Merkley would be higher on his list. I'm not sure if they will come to an agreement, but it will be interesting to see who runs and who doesn't. ",EcoSoco,e995xsh,SandersForPresident
Jack Santucci has been studying proportional representation for a PhD and has written several papers.  He has written about the history of the STV form of Pro-rep in the United States.  It was used in mid-century and receded in most places except for Cambridge Massachusetts.  The reasons why are what he is interested in.,barnaby-joness,e9admx1,SandersForPresident
">The Democratic victory last night, regaining control over the House, was telling the President of the United States 'We're going to end one-party-government. You cannot do anything you want anymore'.  

>What's more important, and what the American people want, is for us to start addressing the real needs that they are experiencing.  

---  

>Make sure the Mueller investigation, looking at possible collusion of the Trump campaign with the Russians, goes forward in an unimpeded manner. We need legislation to protect that investigation.  

>[If Trump] believes that by firing Sessions today that he is going to interfere with that investigation. If he does, that is a very serious offense: obstruction of justice, an impeachable offense.  

---  

>The argument that ""Democrats can't be progressive, we gotta be Republican light"" led to Republican control of the US House & the US Senate. It led to the loss of something like 1000 legislative seats in State Houses all over this country.  

>Man that is such a total mistake, and a bad way to look at the political world.  

---  

>Trump does not politically believe in anything... his only concern is to win elections.  

>If we pass strong legislation raising the minimum wage, and in the 1^st year of a 4 year phase in of Medicare For All (lowering eligibility to 55, covering all young people, lowering prescription costs), you'd probably have Trump saying ""This is great legislation. How great am I for supporting this thing.""  

>Democrats have got to be bold, speak to the needs of where the American people are on economic issues, and we'll have good public policy & set the stage for the next elections.  

-Bernie Sanders, Nov 7^th '18  ",Chartis,e9a4biy,SandersForPresident
"Mhmm
You somehow fucking LOST more seats you schmuck. ",Snuffaluffakuss,e99w698,SandersForPresident
"Yup, here it is, the MSM-centrist spin",St-4_backup,e9b2ut1,SandersForPresident
"We need to work one person at a time on discrediting all of the corporate media and replacing it with source like Democracy Now, TYT, and the Real News.",revolution2018,e9b4zix,SandersForPresident
">The argument that ""Democrats can't be progressive, we gotta be Republican light"" led to Republican control of the US House & the US Senate. It led to the loss of something like 1000 legislative seats in State Houses all over this country.

>Man that is such a total mistake, and a bad way to look at the political world.
  
-Bernie, [Nov 7^th '18](https://youtu.be/wM2ib6Jf7ws?t=207)  

---  

>[Laughs] I am really shocked by this! I cannot believe that that is their conclusion, given that they have been spouting that absurd line forever, and that was the line that they had which enabled Republicans to gain control of the Senate and the House and the White House and for Democrats to lose almost 1,000 seats in the previous nine years. Of course, that’s what the establishment will say.

>But the truth is that what has happened in this election is a significant step forward in terms of the revitalization of American democracy. It wasn’t moderate democrats or conservative Democrats who got young people into the political process. It wasn’t moderate Democrats who increased voter turnout in this election compared to four years ago, I think by almost 50%.

>It is going to be the most progressive freshman class in the modern history of the United States. Many campaigned on:  

>* Medicare For All
>* raising the minimum wage to 15 bucks
>* making public colleges and universities tuition-free
>* undoing Trump’s tax breaks for billionaires. 

>The political establishment notwithstanding, the future belongs to progressives.  

-[Bernie](https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-features/taibbi-bernie-sanders-interview-753484/)  

",Chartis,e9b3wzk,SandersForPresident
[Join Our Revolution](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/),Chartis,e979ntn,SandersForPresident
"What a model statesman. I sincerely hope Bernie gets more credit in the history books than he currently does. A devout public servant, longest-running Independent, spurred national movements. 

- 8 years Mayor of Burlington, VT
- 16 years U.S. House Representative
- 10+ years U.S. Senator

No major scandals, massive bipartisan support in his State (and beyond), humble, and tenacious pursuit of doing what's best for the public against corruption.
",lennybird,e96rvwa,SandersForPresident
Run Bernie Run!,Chartis,e96sffk,SandersForPresident
"Man, I wish Bernie was our Senator, you guys are so lucky. I just love that man.",CricketKvasnicka,e96pz3r,SandersForPresident
Vermont -- keeping one honest voice in the U.S. Senate since 2006.,Demonweed,e96ply7,SandersForPresident
Can someone explain to me how the senate race in VT is a blowout for the dems while the governor polling leans the other way?  I can't really wrap my head around it,Rxef3RxeX92QCNZ,e96qbpp,SandersForPresident
Imagine being at the voting booth and seeing Bernie sitting next to you lol,Dblcut3,e96uah5,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1059864136140632070,Chartis,e969c7h,SandersForPresident
;-; protect him at all costs,foxphace,e96p3la,SandersForPresident
I love my surrogate grandpa,maahhkus,e96vtsg,SandersForPresident
"Be like Bernie ... GO VOTE!  Now!

Take back our country from the fools and corrupt tyrants that are making a mess of it right now.
",Captain_Rational,e96t17u,SandersForPresident
I'm gonna vote for Bernie in 2020,lackofthinking,e96wuoi,SandersForPresident
"Damn, he dunked on that other guy. ",the_LloydBraun_,e97n5mf,SandersForPresident
Is it crazy that every time I see him I just want to cry? Bernie truly is the hero none of us deserve. ,recoveringdropout,e9709op,SandersForPresident
How to *not* speak like a Republican: lesson one,Mythril_Zombie,e978hlh,SandersForPresident
I wonder who he voted for.,FlannelShirtGuy,e97gwk2,SandersForPresident
Gonna be neck and neck!,robotzor,e96fizu,SandersForPresident
"You’ve been a politician for a lifetime, hard to believe you’d remember anything else. ",fukursensitivity,e97h61x,SandersForPresident
Clap...……........Clap...………….Clap,LittIeKldLover,e96qtbw,SandersForPresident
"> No major scandals

Are you serious?  Get a GRIP!  The man owns ***MORE THAN ONE HOUSE***!!  ^^/s",Trawgg,e974f40,SandersForPresident
"I have a feeling in 2021 we will be adding one more giant achievement to that list, and history won't be forgetting him any time soon.",chazzer20mystic,e96v2fm,SandersForPresident
Exactly. Preaching the best for decades,oi_peiD,e979od6,SandersForPresident
"I look at that list and my head screams “why don’t we have term limits”?!!

If we have term limits for the highest elected office, why not the rest of them. 

2 terms max for all of them. IMO ",2Noodly,e97b4ql,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I guess he didn’t have any major scandals, if you exclude being a COMMUNIST

Edit: thought I was in r/ChapoTrapHouse lmao",jakrispy1227,e979pew,SandersForPresident
I wish he was our president. ,twfl,e96rgs1,SandersForPresident
"I'm not from Vermont, I'm from neighboring Massachusetts, but we have a similar thing going on with Charlie Baker.  


At least in my states case many like a Republican governor to serve as a bit of a check on the Democratic party and help keep taxes and new spending in check. I'm guess it's a similar situation in Vermont where the Governor is fiscally conservative, but doesn't subscribe to the more troubling positions of the Republican party such as not believing in climate change, being anti-gay, pro-life, etc. You have to also consider that a governor is not tied to the parties platform in the same way a senator or congressmen is, afaik there aren't any governor whips :P",Tithis,e96rls3,SandersForPresident
"Even crazier, it's a blowout for an independent (Bernie) not even for the dems. But a lot of states tend to elect governors of different parties than their typical preferences and Im not quite sure why.",Dblcut3,e96uekh,SandersForPresident
"Hell, I was just happy to see his name on the ballot. Something awesome about being able to vote for him for Senator after getting screwed out of voting for him for president. 
 
  Then again, I just moved here this summer, so it's all kind of new for me.",WikWikWack,e96zlf6,SandersForPresident
"If you live in Burlington, it's pretty easy to just bump into him sometimes. My sister has bumped into him at the grocery store before, and seen him out walking around town.",RielDealJr,e97f1uf,SandersForPresident
"I seriously tear up also, I’m a grown man and a father but it never fails",FatherUncle,e977qm7,SandersForPresident
Dear.... Lord!! I heard he wrote some raunchy fiction decades ago! Zomg!! ,lennybird,e974m28,SandersForPresident
"Yeah owning more than one house, is much more worse than have a racist and misogynist as a politician

Newsflash, almost all US politicians are millionaire...

Please explain  millionaire politicians how do they know how non millionaire voters feel or what their daily problems are?",obimk1,e97talo,SandersForPresident
"No, TWO giant achievements. Hopefully the largest electoral college win in history. ",Oppenheimerdinger,e96x0fg,SandersForPresident
"*scoffs*, you *don't* say!?? Someone dig up McCarthy! ",lennybird,e97am9p,SandersForPresident
"ARE YOU NOW, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN",Trainkid9,e97n8hw,SandersForPresident
So do so many of us :(,Kwiatkowski,e96t2o7,SandersForPresident
"I read earlier that Charlie Baker is the most popular Governor in the country. I wouldn't be surprised if it were true. As far as I can tell, he's liberal on social issues, and conservative on fiscal issues. I'd bet most people would align with that sort of thinking - no restrictions on personal freedom, not afraid to spend money on the right things, but also mindful to not waste money. ",Kloiper,e96xa1a,SandersForPresident
"Jeez, it's almost like that's the way it's suppose to work ;)

I admire a system where this works! Unfortunately, it seems to be the exception, and not the norm.

I support almost all of Senator Sander's views, but I respect people who have different ones.  What is going on now in our country is just silly. ",atari26k,e9779ga,SandersForPresident
Not to mention the DEM gubernatorial candidate is a transgender woman...,yinyin123,e96sbxb,SandersForPresident
Yeah I have relatives in Vermont that have similar stories. I guess that's what happens in a small small lol,Dblcut3,e97f42e,SandersForPresident
And he's proud of the book he wrote... about socialism!,Chartis,e975701,SandersForPresident
"I am afraid that the pendulums not swinging in favor of progressives to be honest. There was no blue wave in the midterms. If Trump and everything that has happened is not enough to get people to vote liberal, then it does feel like things are not moving in the direction in which you and I might want them to. ",truthseeker1990,e97qeb0,SandersForPresident
Let's make it happen! ,Saraswatispock,e96u6wg,SandersForPresident
"I like Charlie Baker, but the man is so staunchly anti weed in a pro weed state..... like the state voted to legalize weed and he’s still mad. I still voted for him though, he’s a “Massachusetts republican” aka mostly a Democrat",sheikd,e9773ae,SandersForPresident
"hahahahahah conservative on fiscal issues. The guy who wanted the fucking olympics in Boston? He's like any other Republican, he'll go on and on about cutting your taxes, but then they jack up all the other fees and you end up paying more than you were before. Then, like any other politician (D or R), he'll do a bunch of ""let's build this stuff for businesses and take out bonds and make the public pay for it."" 

  I'm just so over people thinking Republicans are the party of fiscal responsibility. It doesn't surprise me because tribalism is what it is, but damn, that's some good PR that flies in the face of reality.",WikWikWack,e96zici,SandersForPresident
/r/BernieSpotting should be a thing,cygnet_committee,e97pfjy,SandersForPresident
I hear it's his favorite book! ,pase,e97l6w1,SandersForPresident
"I mean, they flipped almost 30 republican seats in the house. Possibly more, we don’t know all the races yet. The majority of the seats in the senate that WERE up were mostly democrats. Wait till the next senate election when most republicans are facing re-election. 

Nobody said the blue wave only applied to 2018 midterms. ",Oppenheimerdinger,e97qoit,SandersForPresident
"RemindMe! 2 Years (Vote!)

Edit: Nevermind. It will be too late

Edit 2: RemindMe! 728 Days (Election Day 2020)",FuLL_of_LiFE,e97giio,SandersForPresident
I *know* right? Lying about his untimely preference would have been so much more politically expedient.,Chartis,e97mm4m,SandersForPresident
Yeah true. Maybe I shouldn't be so cynical,truthseeker1990,e97rrvj,SandersForPresident
Or just vote in every single election no mater what...? ,Saraswatispock,e97k4ew,SandersForPresident
Why the hell did Gillum not call for a recount,BopTheDrass,e996kxk,SandersForPresident
"True as far as it goes, but note the trend: the mushrooming of progressive candidates on the left makes them _less_ likely continue to tack toward a rightward-moving middle, while the right has ratcheted up their march toward outright nationalistic fascism. Do I love and trust and admire each and every Democrat or progressie? No, no I do not. But the right, at least in the post-Trump world, is horrifying enough that I'm happy to get in bed with the Democrats for the foreseeble future.",dlwest65,e98ggpv,SandersForPresident
Where is the release?,TJames6210,e98awhk,SandersForPresident
"It's bullshit like these unhelpful graphics that people use to rationalize not voting. 

Cynicism is not productive.",nobody2000,e98nrko,SandersForPresident
"The Democratic Party will do just enough to keep the left voting for them.  They will never, ever cede power to the 99%.

This probably won't be popular here, but it's been proven out over the last 40+ years.  If you ever really want the left to run the show, it will ONLY happen with a new party.

The Democratic Party is a complete fraud and tool of the 1%, and Bernie should run 3rd Party/Independent.",thegeebeebee,e98rj16,SandersForPresident
Putting hope on the ballot,robotzor,e98bu85,SandersForPresident
"True facts, at the end of the day choosing the lesser of two evils is better than just not choosing because the choices are bad.",mancubbed,e98tgzw,SandersForPresident
"> This probably won't be popular here

You serious? Of course it will be popular here. It's feelgood flattery that appeals directly to the progressive fantasy of being a heroic, revolutionary force for change, and paints the nominal ally that many progressives hate and resent as being secretly their real enemy all along. It's the political equivalent of comfort food, the most pandering thing you can possibly say.

No, what's not popular here is pointing out that the Republican base has voted straight-ticket Republican for forty years, and gotten everything they wanted, with the establishment powerless to stop them, while the Democratic base has hemmed and hawed for those same forty years, and gotten nothing. ",Galle_,e9a2prr,SandersForPresident
"Both parties are. Its rich people vs poor people. They don't care about their constituents, they care about thier party donators. A woman dem was elected as our govenor but she was paid thr same amount from coal as her republican opponent. Both of em are in be with the same donator so they both told them ""yes"" and got money from em. So the monopolic elecrtric and gas company makes sure we are using those coal mines they make so much off of and that solar and other energy oppurtunities are hindered. People acting like being a dem or having a vagina means anything in politics. Actions mean everything, not the color of your tie. 

Mr. King said it best
 “I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character.” 

I want to see the content of these progressives character before I am excited for anything.


And I caucused for Bernie and he won in my area. I did not vote for Hilary because of the content of her character, which was none, I didnt vote for Trump either. Turd sandwich or giant douche.",Bran-a-don,e98sbbu,SandersForPresident
"Won't happen.  She brings home the most bacon.  She's indispensible to them, and builts a money tower of neoliberalism to support it.  She also has some mildly progressive positions.  Not saying she should stay, just that realpolitik is money ruling politics.",RomanticFarce,e99rrcn,SandersForPresident
Gillum is a corporate Democrat now? People said his win in the primary proved that corporate dems were being rejected... ,axlrosetookmybike,e985flq,SandersForPresident
"I'm especially unhappy that Florida elected a racist fuck, but I'm very pleased that Janet Mills is going to be our new governor.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e98501g,SandersForPresident
Anyone know where we can see a comprehensive list or analysis of progressive vs establishment results last night? ,filmantopia,e986p8k,SandersForPresident
Uh what? The corporate democrats who lost were incumbents. The fact they were incumbent means they were electable. What the senate election results shows is that the US society at large has degenerated several decades back in just a matter of 3 years. US society has returned to where it was in the late 60s.,Zincoshine_2018,e9a5ss8,SandersForPresident
After last night do we have any data to support that progressive and socialist leaning dems performed better than corporate dems?,humanthought,e98ho20,SandersForPresident
"Pelosi, Perez, Shultz all must go",kungfuchess,e9885fz,SandersForPresident
"Primary season starts right now.  Register as a DEMOCRAT if you live in a closed primary state so that you can vote in the primaries they try to lock us out of.  [Most of these fuckers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_members_of_the_Blue_Dog_Coalition#Members_for_the_115th_Congress) are in safe seats; same with the ""New Democrats.""  I expect to see all of them with progressive primary challengers.  We need to start organizing now- beat the Democrats in the next year and a half, and then beat the Republicans in 2020.",Terrible_Inspection,e98lrl2,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/enough_sanders_spam] [Gillum went from being a progressive who Bernie endorsed to a ""corporate democrat"" according to the Berniebros](https://www.reddit.com/r/Enough_Sanders_Spam/comments/9v31d9/gillum_went_from_being_a_progressive_who_bernie/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e98xz29,SandersForPresident
I really hope this election doesn’t make us start chewing each other up.  That’s exactly what DT fans are hoping for.,robmillernews,e987oim,SandersForPresident
Bernie supported him but he campained with Hillary and Wasserman Shultz after he won the primary... big mistake,kungfuchess,e98891a,SandersForPresident
"He was a progressive when he ran in the primary, but in his general election he ran as a corporate democrat. The only major exception was his stance on Medicare for all, but that seems to be a major part of the party platform in general.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e985io5,SandersForPresident
"He took a large dark money donation right around the time of the Clinton,Booker, Wasserman-Shultz campaigning in the general. The donation burned a lot of his staff and the touring around with Wasserman Shultz and Clinton was the nail in his coffin with a lot of on the fence voters. It really is too bad Gillum I thought had potential. ",maaseyracer,e98bkiw,SandersForPresident
"Yes, he took 200k from an ex GOP healthcare executive",BopTheDrass,e98r7ep,SandersForPresident
Gave up on Medicare for All after the primary,Andy1816,e98ip98,SandersForPresident
yes seriously. We need this date before we make these claims,humanthought,e98hrp9,SandersForPresident
"Hard to say. Different people define progressive in different ways. For ex. Gillum supported Medicare for all, but he didn’t really fight to get money out of politics. So it’s hard to say. Our definite losses are Randy Bryce in Wisconsin, Tim Canova in Florida, Richard Ojeda in West Virginia, and Ben Jealous in Maryland.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e98abuh,SandersForPresident
"You’re right. I think we’re is the key word there. It looks like people are really getting sick of the more establishment dems. If that trend continues which it will as long as establishment dems continue to hinder progress, then they’re going to keep losing general elections.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e9actzb,SandersForPresident
"I’d talk to the people in the districts 

Pelosi just got 85% of the vote 


I think Pelosi will be the next speaker but I hope it’s passed to a younger face within 2019


I just hope the New Democratic House starts passing 

Medicare for all

Net neutrality 

Minimum wage increase 

Infrastructure bills

And

Investigation of the trump administration ",Matthmaroo,e98ntu2,SandersForPresident
"Right, now how do we go about doing this? I don’t want this idea to be contained to this subreddit. We need to make this idea national and start a movement to actually get them out!",H-E-L-L-M-O,e9887p8,SandersForPresident
Are there no rules against brigading for external subs? There is clear vote manipulation going on.,BopTheDrass,e99luz1,SandersForPresident
"Chewing each other up? Dude, we need to change our strategy because it simply isn’t working. The big tent idea did not work so we should have a healthy discussion about how to change so that we don’t make the same mistake next election. It would be insane to keep going this route when it is a failure. When an organization fails in this way you need to change the leadership. That’s how we move forward stronger than ever.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e98ask0,SandersForPresident
"The next poll after he campaigned with Clinton showed him losing like 10%, throwing the race into a tossup. Huge mistake.",NickolaosDSA,e98hfyf,SandersForPresident
"> campained with Hillary and Wasserman Shultz 

Hint: Never do this. Never be seen around either of them, ever. ",Andy1816,e98irnf,SandersForPresident
That's how elections work. Pander to the extremes in the primaries then come closer to the center to get the independent votes,JabroniSn0w,e98dz83,SandersForPresident
He stopped saying Medicare for all in the general. Democratic consultants probably told him not to. ,senanabs,e988eju,SandersForPresident
"Yeah but there are some very important caveats in some of those races. 

Canova was always a longshot, Ben Jealous is because Maryland has a lot of wealth and the wealthy will always side with fascism over the left, Bryce idk what happened, but Ojeda closed a 36 point gap vs what trump got. ",WarlordZsinj,e99tu2g,SandersForPresident
"yeah, reasonable centrists were electable once upon a time, not anymore. 

Except Tester, because you can't test the tester.

And Joe manchin, because he voted according to the wishes of his constituents.

This should also apply for the lone blue state republican left. It's time to kick out Susan Collins, her vote for Kavanaugh should be the end of her career. The senate campaign for Maine should start as soon as the dust from this election has settled. With the money that was pledged to support her opponent in the event of a yes vote for Kavanaugh, no time should be wasted on this extremely important senate race.",Zincoshine_2018,e9axi0m,SandersForPresident
"Fuck the investigations of the Trump administration.  If they pass progressive legislation, they'll win overwhelming majorities in 2020.  It doesn't matter that the fascist Senate will vote progressive legislation down, or on the practically zero chance the Senate passes it, Trump will veto it. 

Pass the Legislation then go on every TV and newspaper explaining how the people would benefit if the Senate and President would sign it into law.

But NOPE - The corporate Dems will spin their wheels for the next 2 years doing nothing but spamming the white house with subpeonas, and spending millions and millions of dollars on ridiculous investigations.

PASS PROGRESSIVE LEGISLATION, DEMOCRATS.  It is ALL you would need to do to win big in 2020.",rabel,e98q14m,SandersForPresident
"And as long as we can do that without chewing each other up in the process, I’m 100% in favor of it.",robmillernews,e98bgxb,SandersForPresident
"The big tent idea is how these incumbents were elected in the first place.

What needs changing is the main tent pole, instead of having a corporate tent pole we need a ""refuse to take corporate PAC money"" tentpole.",Zincoshine_2018,e9a5x6i,SandersForPresident
Fuck he was up like 10 points before the whole Hillary/Bloomberg/Whatshername shit. Fuck fuck fuck. That only inspired republicans to vote against him god fucking damn it,BopTheDrass,e98r98s,SandersForPresident
"She’s not relevant anymore 

Remember who the true enemy is 

Trump 

McConnell 

I believe we will need a united front big tent to beat trump

With large majorities, Bernie can achieve much if he’s elected president ",Matthmaroo,e98o70g,SandersForPresident
"That is a sensible perspective when you're party is out on a fringe.  When the entire nation is far to the left of both parties, maybe angling for the space in between the parties is actually turning off independents.",Demonweed,e98efmc,SandersForPresident
"The GOP has proven this strategy sucks in the last decade.  There are no centrists left in America, it's good vs. evil.  Don't go chasing old racists' votes, shore up your base and drive young people to the polls.  To some extent, Gillum did this, but he needed to keep saying Medicare for All over and over again, instead of focusing on ""getting everyone care of some kind.""",Terrible_Inspection,e98lkj6,SandersForPresident
"> then come closer to the center to get the independent votes

Yeah that part doesn't work now. ",Andy1816,e98its6,SandersForPresident
">That's how elections work. Pander to the extremes in the primaries then come closer to the center to get the independent votes

Except that independents overwhelmingly support progressive proposals like Medicare for all. That playbook is absolutely foolish and only leads to a disappointed base.",Forestthetree,e98z5p9,SandersForPresident
Which is why Andrew Gillum is the Governor now! ,Zepherx22,e98n19s,SandersForPresident
That's how they worked like 30 years ago. We have borderline Mussolinis running the country now. Independents are not centrists. The only winning strategy for democrats is to bring out the youth vote.,BopTheDrass,e98rhi2,SandersForPresident
"And that strategy has lost every single time. The independents aren't actually in the center/right, and when a candidate pivots tot he center they fail to energize their base. This has happened in every election ever.",WarlordZsinj,e99tooy,SandersForPresident
And then healthcare ended up being the number one reason voters got out to vote. The strategists have got to go,H-E-L-L-M-O,e98amlx,SandersForPresident
If anything the dem consultants intentionally sabotaged him so that there was no progressive victory in Florida. And Gillum stupidly believed them. ,BopTheDrass,e98re9p,SandersForPresident
Still has to get past the senate and trump,Matthmaroo,e98q2ye,SandersForPresident
"Trump is the symptom, he is not the cause of any of this bullshit.  Stop focusing on Trump.",rabel,e98q5yt,SandersForPresident
If she's not relevant anymore she should start acting like it and stop tainting the candidates she touches.,BopTheDrass,e99lxch,SandersForPresident
That doesn’t mean the Medicare for all plan was the best choice though...,cubascastrodistrict,e99a0j3,SandersForPresident
You didn't even read what I said. Did you mistakenly respond to me for someone else's post?,rabel,e98qgxo,SandersForPresident
"Well she’s always going to be a big deal in the party


Bernie wants to lead the party , he’s going to work with her at some point ",Matthmaroo,e99me67,SandersForPresident
"Well which is it? Is she not relevant anymore, or is she a big deal in the party? ",BopTheDrass,e99q2r3,SandersForPresident
"No he doesn't. She isn't a part of the party, she just funds it in hope that she can win. Everyone can and should just ignore her because she taints everything she touches and can't win a fucking election to save her life (or the country). Its the same with Pelosi and Feinstein. If you feel like they are actually good at their job (and they aren't, lets be clear about that), you still have to understand that they are some of the biggest boogeymen for the Republicans.",WarlordZsinj,e99tlhu,SandersForPresident
"Big deal in the party


Not relevant to the government and policy anymore ",Matthmaroo,e99q43o,SandersForPresident
"How is Pelosi bad at being speaker 


From my point of view she’s outstanding at it 


She may not do what you want 


But she’s probable the best speaker since tip O’Neil ",Matthmaroo,e99vk2t,SandersForPresident
"You said:

> She’s not relevant anymore
> 
> Remember who the true enemy is
> 
> Trump
> 
> McConnell

In response to:
>Hint: Never do this. Never be seen around either of them, ever.

So you are saying she is, indeed, relevant. because his comment had nothing to do with government and policy, but about Hillary and Whatshername being toxic to any democratic candidates who want to win.",BopTheDrass,e99qe6a,SandersForPresident
"Because she doesn't understand modern politics and what the actual base wants, just what her donors want. She constantly puts her foot in her mouth and doesn't actually get anything done that matters.

And she can't fight Trump. Under the currently leadership they have been completely ineffectual.

Unless by effective you mean being controlled opposition. In which case she plays her role perfectly.",WarlordZsinj,e99vxdx,SandersForPresident
"I’m not bitter about it 


Bernie is going to try to lead the Democratic Party 

We all should learn to play on that team and work together to make him president ",Matthmaroo,e99vpja,SandersForPresident
"Her district in San Francisco would disagree 

85% of the vote 


I think she’s good at being speaker 

But I’m basing it off of the job 

",Matthmaroo,e99wcu1,SandersForPresident
">Her district in San Francisco would disagree

>85% of the vote

Completely meaningless. 

>I think she’s good at being speaker

So you don't care about her politics or results, you just care about the optics. Got it.",WarlordZsinj,e99wmsz,SandersForPresident
"How is what the people think in her district meaningless 

In all actuality- as a house member , that’s all that matters in the world 


As with being speaker 

She was really good 2007-2011 with keeping a large democratic majority in line and voting on democratic issues 

Maybe not the ones you want , but I liked her ",Matthmaroo,e99wozd,SandersForPresident
"the neolibs have their new hopey changey candidate.

where's the beef? 

in which the media declares that by losing, someone is entitled to run for the presidency... ",rommelo,e9co5i3,SandersForPresident
"These are my top scenarios 

1. Bernie/Tulsi

2. Bernie/Beto

3. Tulsi/Beto

4. Bernie/Warren

5. Warren/Tulsi

6. Warren/Beto
",Gusthe3rd,e99i1qq,SandersForPresident
"I wouldn't mind that. What do you guys think about Stacey Abrams? I don't know where she will be in 2020, but she is putting up a good fight against fascist bullshit right now in Georgia and seems to have her heart in the right place.",EcoSoco,e99mhlk,SandersForPresident
"I'm a broken record about this, but he should pick a woman of color with a proven progressive record and that woman is Hilda Solis.",N0000b4Lyfe,e99wa1m,SandersForPresident
I'd choose Ro Khanna but Beto would be a close second.,Terrible_Inspection,e99x458,SandersForPresident
"Prediction, it's going to be a shootout between Sanders and Harris. Loser is likely to be chosen as VP.",llamasonic,e99jrug,SandersForPresident
He has a energy to him that sparks Democrats would be a perfect campaign to beat trump ,Doodoocabinet,e99ja26,SandersForPresident
"I don't think Harris would make it very far, especially if Biden runs. I'm also doubtful she would choose Bernie as VP.",EcoSoco,e99mln2,SandersForPresident
Biden won't run. Bernie would choose Harris for VP. ,llamasonic,e99y8fm,SandersForPresident
FU Crowley.,Caudated,e97d9ni,SandersForPresident
That's my girl.,slax03,e97fptn,SandersForPresident
Hopefully this marks the beginning of a shift away from the Democratic establishment. Never forget that Hillary Clinton said her first priority as President would have been to overthrow Assad (which would have started World War 3). Everyone who voted for her was either brainwashed or a complete psychopath.,Prankster_Bob,e97opy8,SandersForPresident
😂😂😂,Tantalus4200,e98dnx1,SandersForPresident
">. Everyone who voted for her was either brainwashed or a complete psychopath.

or didn't want a president openly promoting racism, prejudice and hate crimes (not to mention sexual assault)  


edit: talking about the general election not primaries ",DatDominican,e984ziu,SandersForPresident
"That's not really what she said.  She called for creating a no-fly zone and security zones to protect civilian populations.  She also said she would reset the Syria policy on day-one and order a full review.  She said she would step-up US attacks on ISIS in Syria.

Bernie supported a bombing campaign against ISIS too.",gengengis,e97zzul,SandersForPresident
What the fuck does this have to do with Hillary. ,icantrightnow,e98g9zt,SandersForPresident
"Christ, you people are gonna be whining about Hillary the rest of your lives. Old news, let it go and move on.",cilantrocavern,e97rrq6,SandersForPresident
i.e. brainwashed,Prankster_Bob,e99i6o8,SandersForPresident
"She literally said her first priority as President would have been to overthrow Assad. And even if she just wanted to put no fly zones over Syria, that would have forced the US to start shooting down Russian jets. There is no doubt she wanted to start World War 3, and that most Democrats supported that",Prankster_Bob,e99in1n,SandersForPresident
The Democratic establishment proved itself incompetent by going with Hillary instead of Bernie. I don't know how anyone thought Hillary could win.,Prankster_Bob,e99i28s,SandersForPresident
"It's not about Hillary, it's about everyone who voted for her and hates on Trump. If you're not anti-war then you ain't a progressive.",Prankster_Bob,e97ttls,SandersForPresident
"Still relevant. Don’t want corporate dems to forget their mistake, people forget what a crook she was already",1122334411,e97uuz1,SandersForPresident
"Til , I'm imagining the racism",DatDominican,e99j3ki,SandersForPresident
" Bernie's campaign statement on this:

> “As president, Sen. Sanders would do all that he could to destroy the barbaric Islamic State terrorist group, but he will do it by maintaining a strong coalition of major powers and our Muslim allies. He agrees with King Abdullah of Jordan that it must be Muslim troops on the ground that destroy ISIS with the support of the United States and other major powers providing air support, training and military equipment. He will do everything he can to prevent U.S. troops from getting involved in perpetual war in the quagmire of the Middle East.
>
> “Sen. Sanders also agrees with President Obama that Secretary Clinton’s proposal for a no-fly zone in Syria could have dangerous implications.
>
> “As president, Sanders also will work to prioritize military spending to make sure we are no longer fighting the Cold War but focus our resources and priorities in fighting today’s challenges, including international terrorism.”
",gengengis,e99orys,SandersForPresident
Obama is anti war?,missionofpiece,e98ft8v,SandersForPresident
"Because she wasn't. It was a bullshit smear campaign, and if you aren't a bot who's part of it you're a fucking rube.

Really, guys. Tell mother Russia she isn't going to run again and that they can find a new target.",phughes,e98an7e,SandersForPresident
yup. Hopefully this information will stick,Prankster_Bob,e99jg9e,SandersForPresident
"No, he wasn't progressive",Prankster_Bob,e99i3b5,SandersForPresident
Next time someone casually calls me the n word I'll thank you for opening my eyes,DatDominican,e99jr5z,SandersForPresident
Obama isn’t a progressive?,missionofpiece,e9be7ws,SandersForPresident
non sequitur,Prankster_Bob,e99jxxw,SandersForPresident
"of course not. Look at the Affordable Care Act. Even though the Dems could have passed anything, they let the insurance companies write the bill",Prankster_Bob,e9c8csi,SandersForPresident
One day I hope to live in the world you think we already do ,DatDominican,e99ocmz,SandersForPresident
Wacky group,missionofpiece,e9cb6rv,SandersForPresident
The Dems are elitist capitalists. Can't wait for the day when a politicians talks about the difference between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. Stop letting the Bolsheviks define socialism.,Prankster_Bob,e9cc6gj,SandersForPresident
Progressivism has peaked and will now subside. ,missionofpiece,e9cqecq,SandersForPresident
"This is just to say thank you and that I am using this to help prep for a presentation I'm doing tonight on these very results.

So, thanks.",writingtoss,e9az9hl,SandersForPresident
"I got this one imgur album documenting wins from 2016-2017, want to see?",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e9azdui,SandersForPresident
"Yes. Yes, I would.",writingtoss,e9azjmm,SandersForPresident
u got it?,The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e9b20gf,SandersForPresident
Much obliged; thanks!,writingtoss,e9bi5zb,SandersForPresident
It is suspicious that there could be so many dumbasses out there.  ,arizonajill,e99fi13,SandersForPresident
"25% vote republican
25% vote democrat
50% vote 3rd party or not at all

Maybe this shows you the effectiveness of political propaganda.",AlfalfaWolf,e99kgjj,SandersForPresident
"No, the minority uses dirty tricks to fix elections by all means possible.",RomanticFarce,e99s9a5,SandersForPresident
"What we know:
1) Many states use easily hackable voting machines, often with no verifiable paper trail
2) When audits can be conducted, hand counts are sometimes changed to match the machine count
3) Both parties do the bidding of their corporate donors rather than running on a platform supported by the vast majority of the American people.

I think its safe to say that democracy is nearly dead in the USA (for some, it never was democratic to begin with), and I do worry that we are being distracted from this impending doom by the illusion that ""things are so close""",Berniecanuck,e9a2hay,SandersForPresident
Seems improbable that is would be such an even split unless it was on purpose. It’s scary how effective propaganda is when we have access to the truth 24/7 in our pockets.,RootlessBoots,e99kl26,SandersForPresident
"Personally I think Bernie running in 2020 with a great young VP, with the acknowledgement that Bernie's only looking to serve one term would be great.  They could frame it with the VP learning under Bernie, and being a major part of the cabinet.  Then Bernie's age couldn't really be used against him. ",kelvindean,e98co93,SandersForPresident
"I agree, Bernie needs a young veep. The good thing about Beto is that he's younger, but not so much younger that he's too green for the role. I think a Sanders/O'Rourke ticket would bring in the much needed energy to get people to the polls.",TheNewThirteen,e98dwqx,SandersForPresident
"If he runs, I think Bernie's VIP pick almost has to be a female in my opinion.  My guess anyway is Beto probably does end up running on his own regardless, but time will tell. ",bleigh82,e98f0sb,SandersForPresident
I'm sorry but Sanders' VP CANNOT be another straight white male.,Melias_,e98yjrr,SandersForPresident
"Considering his history of supporting female candidates, I think Bernie's veep pick will be a woman. All I'm saying is that I wouldn't be disappointed if he chose Beto.",TheNewThirteen,e98f5xw,SandersForPresident
"I agree, ideally a younger woman of color would be perfect, not just to ""look"" good but I believe its a much needed viewpoint we need more of on the national stage.",kelvindean,e98ferf,SandersForPresident
"If you read my earlier comments, I said that I'm sure he'll pick a female VP.

EDIT: a word",TheNewThirteen,e98yxub,SandersForPresident
"I agree, as loathe as I am to put people into boxes, there needs to be diversity in that ticket. ",davidcstewart,e993ie2,SandersForPresident
Sanders/Gabbard is a solid ticket,spartan1204,e99220b,SandersForPresident
"[@billmckibben:](https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1060188765384331264)  

* This makes me grin. Great climate champions, running a great campaign, who will do great things. Divest Maine! ",Chartis,e98rvfg,SandersForPresident
Why the rock??? ,Doodoocabinet,e99u5nj,SandersForPresident
"> From school districts to counties and state legislatures, over 300 jurisdictions in 30 US states already use proportional or semi-proportional systems.

> In the US, the Fair Representation Act, introduced in Congress by Representative Donald Beyer of Virginia, proposes to shift House elections from single-member to larger, multi-member districts with ranked-choice voting. This would create districts of up to five members, with the top five vote-getters winning Congressional seats.

> In Canada, Justin Trudeau ran on the promise of federal-level electoral reform but has since backed away. Provinces are taking matters into their own hands. British Columbians are voting through November 30 on a referendum to switch to proportional representation. If BC voters there are successful in reforming their system, it could shine the way to a path forward in the US. Plus a domino effect might take place in Canada. Prince Edward Island and Quebec are also poised to switch.

> North Americans don’t have to stay shackled to outdated voting systems. Voters could slay gerrymandering with one strike—by switching to multi-winner districts with proportional representation.",barnaby-joness,e980xpd,SandersForPresident
"They are migrating, in a caravan..",RocketeerJones,e96q96x,SandersForPresident
"we always had caravans.... they are inexpensive to process.... Ice detention centers are bankrupting the country

sending 15,000 troops is just theater.. they are not allowed to touch anyone.... another waste of taxpayers money

Let's push for the Dreamers when we win the house Clean Dream act",4now5now6now,e96umbw,SandersForPresident
"Guarantee we don't hear a peep about the caravan from the GOP after today, because they'll no longer have to drum up fear and xenophobia to turn out the vote.",EmAreDubs,e979489,SandersForPresident
"Right-Wing Hypocrisy: When Europeans came to the New World and stole whatever they could get their hands on, that was ""exploration"". When Latin Americans come to America in search of safety and job opportunities, that's ""an invasion"".",HammerBioLizard,e96xc90,SandersForPresident
"context:

If you ever need a reminder that the CIA was founded and run by lawyers, you won't need to look any further than the overthrow of Guatemalan democracy. The Dulles brothers were partners in the Wall Street law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell; time permitting, they also worked for the US government. With John Foster Dulles heading the State Department and Allen Dulles heading the CIA, they were the czars of Eisenhower's foreign policy, and they made sure that the interests of Sullivan & Cromwell clients weren't ignored.
In 1951, Jacobo Arbenz was elected president of Guatemala by a landslide in a free and fair election. He hoped to transform Guatemala ""from a backward country with a predominantly feudal economy to a modern capitalist state."" The CIA, however, weighed in heavily on the side of feudalism.

When Arbenz appropriated some unused land controlled by the Rockefeller-owned United Fruit Company (for which United Fruit was duly compensated), the company undertook an extensive PR campaign in the US, designed to paint Arbenz as a tool of the ""international Communist conspiracy."" John Foster Dulles, ever alert for opportunities to roll back the red menace-and to help out a valued client-convinced Ike that Arbenz must go. [By the way, ""United Fruit Company"" is the actual origin of the term, ""Banana Republic.""]

Brother Allen's CIA was only too happy to take the job, which ended up costing only about $20 million. The agency sponsored a propaganda offensive and hired about 300 mercenaries who sporadically sabotaged trains and oil supplies.


Finally, in June of 1954, unmarked CIA planes staged a series of air raids on the Guatemalan capital and dropped leaflets demanding Arbenz's resignation. At the same time, CIA-run radio stations warned of the impending invasion of an occupying rebel army (actually the agency's 300 hired thugs). Considering discretion the better part of valor, Arbenz fled, leaving Guatemala in the hands of the CIA's hand-picked stooge, General Castillo Armas.

The CIA has always been particularly proud of the Guatemalan operation, which inaugurated a series of bloodthirsty regimes that murdered more than 100,000 Guatemalans over the next 40 years. In retrospect, however, some CIA veterans concluded that it may have come off too easily, leading to a certain overconfidence. **As one CIA officer put it, ""We thought we could knock off these little brown people on the cheap.""**

http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/CIA%20Hits/Guatemala_CIAHits.html",RomanticFarce,e97c84o,SandersForPresident
"the only reason we would use the same term is because we long ago stopped looking into the various drummed-up fear-mongering stories the right puts out there, and so therefore have no other term to say things such as ""who gives a shit about the migrant caravan""",theDarkAngle,e96sz5s,SandersForPresident
"Great news. From what was visible online Wardlow had a solid team of Trumpthumpers shilling for him in the usual way makes you disgusted just from watching it. 

Hope Ellison does a great job but know Wardlow would've been a bad one. ",abolish_karma,e98htza,SandersForPresident
"Republicans wouldn't have even flinched, much less changed their voting behavior, if 3x as many women came to accuse their nominee of domestic violence. They just know it affects Dems' voting behavior (as it *should*, you know, for a *reasonable* group of people), so try to use it in a cold political calculation to dissuade voters.",S3lvah,e98uyij,SandersForPresident
"This is why we can't with-hold our criticism of democrats in general. 

A lot of the progressive community pretended that Gillium can do no wrong and was just as progressive as he was in the primary. And  they shamed those who criticized Gillium for moving to the right and sucking up to the establishment.

Was Gillium the better choice? Sure. But he shouldn't have affiliated himself with Clinton. He shouldn't have taken money from billionaires. He should have advocated for bold policy/vision rather than just attacking Desantis.

",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e97u506,SandersForPresident
"I voted for him but in the end he was NOT a progressive.  He was an Obama... looks nice.  sounds nice.  Will screw the working class for personal gain every time.  

You can't work for billionaires and represent the people.  

This is why he lost - https://www.tampabay.com/florida-politics/buzz/2018/08/23/andrew-gillum-gets-another-650000-from-billionaire-donors-soros-steyer/

",scamp_19,e9814af,SandersForPresident
"Given how Florida seems to reliably go Republican by 1-2% in every neck-and-neck statewide election, time and time again (elections in Florida aren't suspicious at all \*cough\* Bush vs. Gore \*cough\*), I'm really wondering why everyone including the Kochs were along in supporting the restoration of voting rights to over a million FL ex-felons, who lean Democrat.",S3lvah,e97sh38,SandersForPresident
"Andrew Gillium has always been affiliated with the Clinton's though--IIRC he has been friends of the family for a long time.

Also, are you sure it wasn't more allying with Sanders that cost him? I know a lot of elderly Jewish relatives in Florida who even refused to vote for Clinton because, and I quote: ""she adopted too many of Bernie's Socialist policies."". It drives me up the fuckin wall but like it or not there are a lot of retirees qnd Cuban exiles in Florida that hate anything that even Smells like socialism.",jagd_ucsc,e995e7v,SandersForPresident
So why did Ben Jealous lose ? ,Bardali,e98i4zm,SandersForPresident
But Obama won Florida...twice.,pablonieve,e99nysr,SandersForPresident
">Given how Florida seems to reliably go Republican by 1-2% in every neck-and-neck statewide election, time and time again (elections in Florida aren't suspicious at all *cough* Bush vs. Gore *cough*),

And yet. Nearly everytime Democrats lose a close election, they don't request a recount, file lawsuits, request audits, or organize any kind of campaign to verify the integrity of the votes. They lose gracefully and disappear.

Republicans deserve the majority of the blame. But the democrats will continued to get rolled over if they don't use every possible avenue to fight back.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e97u6s6,SandersForPresident
Maryland is weird. I heard  they like having a repub governor to keep the dem state senate and house in check or something,lackofthinking,e98q95p,SandersForPresident
"Indeed. I haven't actually heard much about what kind of voting system Florida has, but boy is it working well for the Republicans.",S3lvah,e98w4fm,SandersForPresident
"Unless you live in Florida. Other than amendment 4 it was a pretty horrible night for Florida. We now have an openly racist governor, Voldemort as senator and every single constitutional amendment passed meaning Florida will have serious budget shortfalls in the coming years. ",roj2323,e98sbfw,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I think Florida is cooked, at least until the next generation.",EcoSoco,e992mte,SandersForPresident
"From this piece following him a week ago:  
[Bernie Sanders Isn’t Tired. He’s “Just Waking Up.”](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/rubycramer/bernie-sanders-2020-president-campaign-midterm-elections)

It sounds like he will only run if he feels he is the one with the best chance of beating Trump. He closely watches the engagement on his facebook and twitter so if you want him to run you should be actively following his social media:

Twitter: [@BernieSanders](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders) (8.9m followers) & [@SenSanders](https://twitter.com/SenSanders) (8m followers)  
Facebook: [Bernie Sanders](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/) (5m likes) & [Senator Sanders](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/)  (7.5m likes)",SpaceDetective,e98trf4,SandersForPresident
He'll do whatever the fuck he wants. ,filmantopia,e98570t,SandersForPresident
"Bernie was the only candidate I liked in 2016, coming from a republican.",slothskiii,e99bgzz,SandersForPresident
"He has nearly 100% name recognition 

Huge supporter base and I’m sure funding from that base


I believe he can launch the campaign whenever he wants ",Matthmaroo,e98npbq,SandersForPresident
"I don't think he'll announce this year, but definitely sometime in the 1st or 2nd quarter next year. ",EcoSoco,e992qc2,SandersForPresident
No he said until April 2015 last time so let’s let 2019 come first ,Harvickfan4Life,e98j9o5,SandersForPresident
"If he runs I'll be there to knock doors, make calls, and push for Bernie 2020 in every way I can. He's the first politician I donated money to and by FAR the best choice.

If the Democrats run Joe Biden (or another corporate shill Democrat) I will vote for Trump. I couldn't bring myself to do that in 2016, but I will in 2020 if it's my only choice. Mainstream Democrats need to wake up to the corruption before we get someone as evil as Trump who is as well spoken as Obama.


**repost because I didn't see the sticky for this topic*",LegitimateWrap,e98s5ua,SandersForPresident
"And he’ll do it when he thinks he has the energy behind him, just like last time. ",IrrationalTsunami,e985z5d,SandersForPresident
Appreciated both times. ,IrrationalTsunami,e98smoo,SandersForPresident
"He didn't run, because he thought he had energy behind him. He said he decided to run, because there was nobody who was going to challenge Hillary with his ideas and ideals.

So, if there is a progressive candidate making an announcement he likely won't run.",SH_DY,e98l0lm,SandersForPresident
"He absolutely did, and said so. And the second part is also true. 

And the fact that he won’t announce if there’s already people on th field is a yuge part of trying to get him to announce early. ",IrrationalTsunami,e98lbmt,SandersForPresident
">The moment is too late for people to say ""I'm not gonna get involved."" Not good enough. We are fighting for the future of the planet! So you can't sit back. You don't have that option.  

>If you're a yuman being you've gotta stand up, you gotta fight back. [Our Revolution is giving you that opportunity to get involved.](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/) I'm very proud of what Our Revolution is doing.  

>The political revolution is not just a campaign. It's gotta go on and on. Nina Turner has picked up that mantle. We're involving people all over this country.  

>I'm very excited. We're doing better than I even thought that we could. Congratulations to all the people involved in Our Revolution. Keep up the great work. We are winning.  

>We are winning this fight ideologically. And we're winning this fight in terms of bringing people into politics.  

>Thanks very much

-[Bernie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEyxtaQtfKg)",Chartis,e95vckp,SandersForPresident
"Hoosier here, I voted! Fuck the GOP, out, out, out! ",Master_Alucard1331,e95nwdp,SandersForPresident
"Florida registered republican here.  I voted for all democrats this time. I will not stand for a party of fear mongers and racists. This country is too important. 

Edit: Thanks for the gold kind stranger!  ",dawkinsandy,e964fdp,SandersForPresident
"I voted- everyone really, really needs to vote.  Please go vote if you have not already done so!!!",flyonawall,e95rf62,SandersForPresident
I voted! Go Bernie!,TheTrickyThird,e95igji,SandersForPresident
"Bernie has 13 hours and 20 minutes for the press to still prop him up.

After Dems take the midterms, you can expect HuffPo and others to turn on them.

Fox News did this to Ron Paul.   MSNBC did this to Dennis Kuccinich. 

They only get favourable coverage when it's useful to the establishment. ",vimrc_201808,e95wgqx,SandersForPresident
I voted! Go Bernie!!! ,merrycat426,e95tj4b,SandersForPresident
Voted! Build that wave my friends.,mh732,e95op2k,SandersForPresident
I don't think he's particularly religious. I also think it's a bad idea to toss words unless you're sure they fit. We've seen what casually misusing words has led us to.,EndTimesRadio,e95sd3u,SandersForPresident
"Bernie, we already have a word for that. It's ""Republican"".",Drax_lem_sklounst,e95tw3n,SandersForPresident
I was gonna get on here and say I wish he would not bother because anyone who knows this is already convinced and anyone who isn’t is just made more likely to cling to trump against their conscience to “own the libs”.  But what do I know?,theodorAdorno,e95zijq,SandersForPresident
"What specifically has Trump said that makes him a homophobe? I'm not defending him or anything, it's just hard to remember all the crap he said on Twitter",dum_dums,e95rpvo,SandersForPresident
">Our plan: make health care a right to all. Stop giving tax breaks to billionaires. Protect and expand Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Transition to sustainable energy and leave behind a livable planet for our children.   

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1059554414455914496)",Chartis,e95uyvl,SandersForPresident
"Well, he's right at home in the good ol' U.S. of A.",Xurio,e95pc7d,SandersForPresident
"I'm a Indiana resident (I refuse to say Hoosier; Boiler Up!), and I voted the same. Straight ticket democrat!

So tired of the GOP and their regressive bullshit!!",MikeyLew32,e95ob7g,SandersForPresident
People like you are arguably the most important. You have the ability to bend the ear of your circle of fellow Republicans. ,Masta0nion,e967dw7,SandersForPresident
"[Cenk Uygur: 2020 Elections Will Be Dirty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XvSTCrROAhc) [2:26]  

[Cenk Uygur Calls Out Mainstream Media](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dUex-7VlcMc) [6:46]  

---  

>We have got to be talking about:  

>* Health care, Medicare For All  
>* Raising the minimum wage to a living wage: $15/h  
>* Climate change and the transformation of our energy system  
>* [Income & wealth inequality](https://www.publishersweekly.com/978-1-25016-326-4): demand the wealthy and large corporations startpaying their fair share of taxes  

>Good policy issues, good politics.  

-Bernie, Nov 2^nd '18  ",Chartis,e96nmyg,SandersForPresident
">When people talk about [how well we did with young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg), clearly one of the reasons for that was our success with [social media](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JHhbWwAApurW.jpg)...

---         

>Media is about what is not covered. The more important the issue is to large numbers of working people, the less interesting it is to corporate media. Issues being pushed by the top 1% get a lot of attention. My candidacy, alone, accounted for the majority of attention that network Sunday news shows paid to poverty, one of the great crises facing the nation. National television coverage ignores the reality of important parts of American life. Corporations have an agenda that serves their bottom line. In fact, that’s the reason for their existence. The largest media corporations are themselves owned by even larger conglomerates that have their own particular set of economic interests. 

>The extraordinary power of the multinational corporations provides billions of dollars a year in advertising revenue to the corporate owners of the media. These powerful corporations have an agenda. Six corporations control 90% of what we see, hear, and read. This is outrageous, and a real threat to our democracy. Those six corporations are Comcast, News Corp, Disney, Viacom, Time Warner, and CBS. 

>I received 46% of the pledged delegates, won twenty-two states, and lost some states by a few votes. In other words, we had a significant amount of support from ordinary people. On the other hand, I did not win 46% of the endorsements from the print establishment and the leading newspapers in the country. In fact, I won only one. I was very proud to have received the endorsement of The Seattle Times. 

>The political revolution, our revolution, must continue. Stay involved and get your friends involved. Run for the school board, city council, state legislature. Run for governor. Run for Congress. Run for the Senate. Run for president. Hold your elected officials accountable. Know what they’re doing and how they’re voting—and tell your neighbors. But transforming America is more than just elections. It’s about changing our culture.  

>Demand that the media focuses on the real issues facing our nation and the world, not just political gossip. And if corporate media won’t change, and they won’t, start new media. The Internet offers revolutionary prospects.

>The future is in your hands. Let’s get to work.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Our Revolution - A Future to Believe In](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250160454)",Chartis,e95wpaf,SandersForPresident
"I think he meant ""a bigot with regard to religion"" more than a bigoted religious person. Possibly referring to attitudes towards Muslims. ",clockstruckduck,e96f5en,SandersForPresident
">I think people are shocked when they find out that I am Christian, that I am a religious person... I'm Presbyterian.    

-[Donald Trump](https://www.cnn.com/2016/10/21/politics/trump-religion-gospel/index.html). 

Though the Pope has [called out Trump's Christianity](https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-35607538/donald-trump-s-christianity-questioned-by-pope-francis). (not that he holds authority over that denomination)


---  


>Do unto others as you would like them to do unto you...    

>I have believed it my whole life: We are in this together. When you hurt, when your children hurt, I hurt. I hurt...  

>What human nature is about is that everybody impacts everybody else...  

>When we do the right thing, when we treat people with respect and dignity, we are more human...  

>That's my religion, that's what I believe in...  

>Most people around the world share that belief, that we are in it together as human beings. And [it becomes more and more practical.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ)   

-Bernie ""Not me, us"" Sanders, [Feb 23^rd 2016](https://youtu.be/uBBQ_WYNbuQ?t=20)",Chartis,e95utti,SandersForPresident
He appointed the former govern of Kansas as an ambassador of religious freedom.,BigMoneySeamus,e960hnc,SandersForPresident
"What happened to Bernie - Ive never run an attack ad - Sanders. Look, I don't like Trump either but our country is having a huge political identity crisis right now, everyone is just pointing fingers, calling names, and fighting eachother. We need to work towards healing our political system before it leads to another civil war. Donald Trump is a symptom, not the disease. You don't elect a reality TV star as president if your country is doing well politically. But nobody wants to listen, so many people wont even listen to anybody who disagrees with them. We are all Americans and we need to have real conversations and discussions about what we can do to fix our socio-political system before it implodes.",XanderTheMander,e95vjg4,SandersForPresident
"Let's not do that, please.",medioxcore,e96jeqe,SandersForPresident
I get that. But Bernie is currently the most respected American politician (based on polls) so I'd counter that it means a lot coming from him and has the ability to persuade centrists/independents who haven't quite seen the light yet.,ParkGeunhye,e96fd4s,SandersForPresident
Well most recently his administration us trying to change definition of gender as to erase intersex and Trans or gender nonconforming individuals. And he also choose pence as his VP so there is that,glane98,e95v9s7,SandersForPresident
One such instance that can lend credibility to the claim. https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/19/trump-lgbt-rights-discrimination-353774,Bryvayne,e95tgn0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e95v21t,SandersForPresident
"Indiana here too. I never voted straight ticket Dem in my life before 2018. People need to get off the couch and get to the polls.

Weren't Joe Donnelly's ads just terrible though? The pandering to Trumpsters when he should Bernie the hell out of this state. People in our state respond to an  economic populism message and largely don't give a shit about the border wall. People forget that Indiana is mostly not racist. We voted for Obama in '08 and Bernie in '16. Same message too, change the corruption in DC, bring economic fairness, and support organized labor. It's not hard to figure out.",woShame12,e95u3cd,SandersForPresident
"The only people who suck more than IU are the republicans, comrade",shwaung,e96go3b,SandersForPresident
So you went in and voted straight along party lines. The thing Bernie stood against his whole career. This mentality of voting against the other team instead of for someone who you agree with is perpetuating the problem. Voting all democrat or republican  won’t change anything. Why would they want to change what got them in power?,Cpncrnch,e96aso7,SandersForPresident
"I agree and believe me I’ve tried. The problem with some of my fellow republicans is that they see the economy doing well and they saw some tax cuts so they’re happy. They can somehow look past all of the other issues that are important (blatant racism, voter suppression, immigration, environment, health care, education...I could go on for awhile). 

The point is to not let your political affiliations define you to the point to where you no longer can think independently for yourself. I see it and it is sickening. 

Please go vote, please have your voice heard, and let’s clean up the political mess that the GOP has created. ",dawkinsandy,e96h06t,SandersForPresident
How's it an attack if he's just pointing out facts? ,Mtownsprts,e95voqw,SandersForPresident
">Donald Trump tapped into the anger of a declining middle class that is sick and tired of establishment economics, establishment politics and the establishment media.  People are tired of working longer hours for lower wages, of seeing decent paying jobs go to China and other low-wage countries, of billionaires not paying any federal income taxes and of not being able to afford a college education for their kids - all while the very rich become much richer. 

>To the degree that Mr. Trump is serious about pursuing policies that improve the lives of working families in this country, I and other progressives are prepared to work with him. To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and anti-environment policies, we will vigorously oppose him.  

-Senator Sanders Statement on Trump, [Nov 9^th 2016](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-trump)

>Trump is something different who will do anything, say anything in order to gain power. And while he's dividing us up he's busy giving tax breaks to the rich and trying to throw millions of people off the health insurance that they have.  

>It is imperative we rally the American people not only against Trump but around a progressive agenda which demands that government works for all of us, not just wealthy campaign  contributors.

-Bernie Sanders, Nov 2^nd '18",Chartis,e95w8a8,SandersForPresident
Yeah you’re probably right,theodorAdorno,e972v20,SandersForPresident
"That really doesn’t talk about his homophobia. It discusses his removal of LGBT policies, though.",aqua_vit,e95ue3e,SandersForPresident
"I did my research to make sure all Dems on my ballot were respectable candidates with decent policy proposals. Then I voted straight ticket dem, and made informed choices for each amendment on the ballot. It probably took ten minutes. Fuck the GOP.",ParkGeunhye,e96f46i,SandersForPresident
"Temporary sacrifice for the good of everyone. We need to beat the GOP right now, and we can keep working on the DNC after.",Doilyn,e96g00y,SandersForPresident
It's an attack for sure. Bernie is all about standing up for ourselves. What it isn't is a '30 second ugly negative ad'. His calling out of Trump's hypocrisy here shows integrity.,Chartis,e95wkmr,SandersForPresident
"It doesn't talk about it directly, but it's a rational leap in logic. Basically walks like a duck/talks like a duck.",Bryvayne,e95ye92,SandersForPresident
">I'm Donald Trump and I approve [this message.](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/05/us/politics/nbc-caravan-advertisement.html)  

-https://youtu.be/NfO4w3lBSb0?t=96  ",Chartis,e96cgd8,SandersForPresident
That analysis should also look at how much help if any the DCCC or any part of the democratic party provided to the progressive candidates that beat the corporate democrat in the primary.  The only help I've heard about thus far are endorsements from a hand full of higher ranking dems.  Meanwhile Bernie helps with rallies for democrats like Gretchen Whitmer.,Antarctica-1,e998h1f,SandersForPresident
"Here are some, but I don't think it's a full list:

Democratic Socialists of America - https://twitter.com/DemSocialists

Our Revolution - https://www.reddit.com/r/WayOfTheBern/comments/9v16fd/our_revolution_posts_wins_from_yesterday_on_their/",Scientist34again,e98jwgd,SandersForPresident
I'm asking for a comparison of progressive wins vs establishment wins. This is just progressive wins,humanthought,e98k2ys,SandersForPresident
"Hmm, I haven't seen that anywhere.",Scientist34again,e98k4iz,SandersForPresident
"Ageism is specifically prohibited by our community guidelines. File a report if you see any, and start calling it out outside of the sub, and Reddit, and the internet, whenever it rears it's ugly head.",Chartis,e97pdii,SandersForPresident
They will attack Bernie's age while simultaneously pushing Joe Biden. Because nothing means anything anymore.,BopTheDrass,e9955ha,SandersForPresident
Damn straight! I'm ready for Bernie.,GrandpaChainz,e96racw,SandersForPresident
I know that is I why I have donated and phonebanked to many Bernie candidates since 2016,4now5now6now,e96sgdy,SandersForPresident
"From this piece recently by a journalist following Bernie:  
[Bernie Sanders Isn’t Tired. He’s “Just Waking Up.”](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/rubycramer/bernie-sanders-2020-president-campaign-midterm-elections)

My takeaway: For 2020 Bernie prioritizes the defeat of Trump over all else and it sounds like he will only run if he feels he is the one with the best chance of doing that. With that in mind he closely watches the engagement for his videos etc on facebook and twitter. If you want him to run you should be actively following his social media.",SpaceDetective,e96vhyu,SandersForPresident
[Hindsight is 2020](https://i.imgur.com/rOS65Wo.jpg),I_trust_everyone,e96xvv3,SandersForPresident
"> Bernie Sanders Isn’t Tired. He’s “Just Waking Up.”

Yeah, I saw that. If Warren doesn't run I think it's a sure thing.",N0000b4Lyfe,e96za46,SandersForPresident
">* Life expectancy for women has declined over the past 20 years in 313 U.S. counties.  
>* People in the highest income group can expect to live, on average, at least 6.5 years longer than those in the lowest income group.  
>* Adult men and women who have graduated from college can expect to live at least 5 years longer than people who have not finished high school.  
>* In 2009, the mortality rate for African American infants was over twice that of white infants.
>* As a nation we have 6 million more people living in poverty than we did in 2004.
>* In the United States in 2000, 133,000 people died due to poverty.  

>Reducing poverty in America is a major challenge, that will require efforts on many fronts. Because disparities in health care access and utilization exist even after controlling for insurance coverage, ensuring access to health coverage for all is an important step, but will not by itself solve the problem. Addressing non-financial barriers to health, such as transportation, child care, primary school education, and safe housing, to name a few, must be considered when discussing efforts to improve health for millions of low-income Americans.

>At a time when the numbers of people dying in this country due to poverty rival that of those dying of preventable diseases, more attention must be paid to socioeconomic disparities.

-Sen. Sanders, Sept 13^th '11: [The Human Cost of Socieconomic Disparities.](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/IsPovertyADeathSentence.pdf) 

>There is very little discussion about these major crises, and even less discussion about ideas that can resolve these issues.

>And this is not just a crisis within the political establishment -- it’s certainly a crisis within the media establishment, because media seems to be far more concerned about looking at politics as a game, or looking at personality and celebrity life.  

>1. The growing disparity in income and wealth that exists in America. We are in a situation where we have not been since the late 1920s, before the Depression, where the top 1% owns 38% of the financial wealth of America, while the bottom 60% – six zero – owns 2.3% of the wealth in America. That is obscene beyond belief. 95% of all new income in this country went to the top 1%.

>  It is very dangerous to our political system. Because big money interests are putting huge amounts of money into the political process through Citizens United. And these are issues that have got to be addressed, or else in my view the United States will move very rapidly toward an oligarchic form of society when our economic and political life is controlled by a handful of billionaires.  

>  I see this as a huge moral issue, an economic issue, a political issue. There is virtually no discussion about that, virtually none. I don’t know how we can be a serious nation when this issue is not front and center, and there are not real ideas out there on how we address it.  

>2. Global warming is man-made, that it is already causing disastrous problems, and that those problems will only get worse in years to come -- that we have almost no movement at all, virtually no movement in Congress on this planetary crisis.

>3. Cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid: inside the Beltway, in the political establishments, there is support for cuts to those terribly important programs.

-Bernie, Nov 27^th '13: [Why I might run](https://www.salon.com/2013/11/27/bernie_sanders_why_i_might_run_in_2016/)",Chartis,e97m4qm,SandersForPresident
"Makes no sense how they win this, but that fuck Scott still gets re-elected. Liberals want so badly to believe in ""moderate republicans"" that they go to a GOP-er over someone like Hallquist.",BopTheDrass,e9959jg,SandersForPresident
"Why does it seem like so many people in their 30s *hate* Bernie Sanders? I was just talking to a guy tonight who started going off about how ""the primary wasn't rigged! Nothing illegal happened with the HVF, plus Hillary won the Washington primary but Bernie got all the delegates!"" seemingly out of nowhere, and he only got saltier and saltier as time went on. I see this happen time and time again, and it's only with people in that age group. Older people could not give a shit about this ""feud"", and younger people are enthusiastically for Sanders and don't even bring up Hillary. But I always run into people in their 30s with a deep seated loathing for him, even 2 years later. Why? My theory is that it's because they were in high school during the Clinton era so they just absolutely love her, but I'm not sure.",nxqv,e97l4bx,SandersForPresident
"probably because they fell for the blaming of sanders for Hillary's loss.  it is extremely delusional.  you blame the person on the ballot.  she lost the most winnable election in American history.  and the mainstream media and the other sycophants spent two years pointing fingers.  if that isn't a sign that they are on the wrong side of history i don't know what is.  excuses and changing nothing.  you can't do that after losing to someone like trump.  and you can't blame someone who polled better against trump before and after the election, that also campaigned for you.",StormalongJuan,e98c53t,SandersForPresident
"Yeah you nailed it.

Some choice quotes: ""he just wasn't a good candidate."" ""he doesn't have the temperament to be president"" and then when called out on it, ""i actually really like Bernie""",nxqv,e99d5xz,SandersForPresident
"can you believe kemp is in charge of his own election?

Now if no one gets more than 50 % of the vote it goes to a run off",4now5now6now,e970l77,SandersForPresident
this makes me happy.  There is a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3VaVpNG1HJQ&feature=youtu.be) of a debate they had where he kept calling her Pelosi and her response was absolutely perfect.  Glad to see it worked out for her.  ,Halfwayhome22,e97h3x5,SandersForPresident
"the electoral colledge or the senate?  what is necessary to keep NYC and LA from deciding what is best for everyone?

really the question is kind of irrelevant because neither is going to be changed any time soon.  beter to focus on medicare for all and improving your own party to win in spite of the obstacles in your way.",StormalongJuan,e98hn2z,SandersForPresident
"How does the senate only represent land owners ?


Am I missing something or miss understanding something?


I think our current for of government gives too much power to the middle of nowhere with 1500 people in a county vs a city block with thousands ",Matthmaroo,e98pel3,SandersForPresident
Is the idea that low population States don't rate representation? Because we fought a Revolution against a similar notion.,ParinoidPanda,e98atu0,SandersForPresident
"It's a by-the-numbers grade, even Van Hollen has a higher score than Bernie.",EcoSoco,e993iy3,SandersForPresident
"what does that mean? 

im wondering why bernie didnt support these pieces of legislation when they appear to be mostly no-brainers",lowercasetruth,e997ifj,SandersForPresident
"Not a shock, Bernie is a great politician, as his public base knows",The-Communist-Banana,e976t5g,SandersForPresident
😱,seamslegit,e9731vs,SandersForPresident
I wish I could vote for him.  ,aColdHeartedBitch,e978ir4,SandersForPresident
Soon.....,seamslegit,e978uf6,SandersForPresident
I love her! She is so down to earth. Great victory!,4now5now6now,e971erl,SandersForPresident
I hope that it is okay i'm posting this in P_R... ,4now5now6now,e9728fj,SandersForPresident
"Much love for r/Political_Revolution. And as always anyone is welcome to use and even alter any of 'my' stuff without credit even, as long as it's not used to undercut Bernie, our causes, or progressive organizations. Thanks for shouldering the 'work' and spreading the love. ",Chartis,e972l04,SandersForPresident
thank you,4now5now6now,e97a1fi,SandersForPresident
I thinks he’s clearly a strong favorite to win the nomination ,Matthmaroo,e98phkr,SandersForPresident
It sure feels like a major loss in Florida,Thetman38,e9821cw,SandersForPresident
"Gotta wonder if Gillum stayed left, he would have won. ",rws723,e983ysb,SandersForPresident
"No, it's Florida. Old people don't care about the environment or schools but are afraid of the nurse/maid who speaks Spanish, so clearly she's a thief. Ooh and don't get me started on Brevard, the DoD capitol of the state. Boy do they live their boy Trump. ",Thetman38,e984n14,SandersForPresident
They passed the felony amendment tho. And you're not persuading Trump supporters per say by moving/staying left. ,rws723,e984roa,SandersForPresident
"* https://act.berniesanders.com/signup/volunteer?source=web_main_nav  

* https://ourrevolution.com/groups/our-revolution-nevada  

* https://ourrevolution.com/groups/las-vegas-democratic-socialists-of-america  

* https://ourrevolution.com/groups/our-revolution-nv  
",Chartis,e97n257,SandersForPresident
being allies with saudi arabia or the bad parts of china is a huge mistake for any secular nation ,KindlyPresentation,e95gxsu,SandersForPresident
Feudal Monarchy.,patb2015,e95maxw,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962t92,SandersForPresident
"these people do not even consider other as human

",4now5now6now,e96upif,SandersForPresident
"What would happen to the petrodollar if we turned on Saudi Arabia? 

The US economy is so wrapped up in dirty partnerships, war crimes, monopolies and corruption that I don't understand how you change it with out the whole system collapsing.",YouBetterDuck,e95mm1r,SandersForPresident
"I get your point about Saudi Arabia, them being religious extremists and all, but could you explain China?

So far as I know there is no state religion in China however they do recognize Buddhism, Taoism, Islam, Catholicism, and Protestantism.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e96q0j4,SandersForPresident
"they have summary execution vans straight out of judge dread for one thing

their political state is the religion ",KindlyPresentation,e972r4y,SandersForPresident
Lol...BREAKING!,ConceptualTrap,e971020,SandersForPresident
It was a real nail biter but he clinched it out,thesilverpig,e971104,SandersForPresident
"Tim Kaine is currently losing. Still early though

Edit, not losing anymore",BopTheDrass,e972avk,SandersForPresident
The early Bern catches the worm :-),BeTheBern,e95t9ij,SandersForPresident
God I hope so!!!!,lapacheco7,e95u0qq,SandersForPresident
Give him a candy every time he says that,articulars,e95z44d,SandersForPresident
so sweet!,4now5now6now,e96t0ll,SandersForPresident
Godspeed America!,Gard3nNerd,e96lw38,SandersForPresident
if Dems take back the house and senate I'm going to make it rain in candy,Gard3nNerd,e96lx46,SandersForPresident
"The most important midterm election of our lifetime, since the last most important midterm election of our lifetime 4 years ago. Hope we don't forget all about this one in 4 years, which will be the most important midterm election of our lifetime.",robotzor,e95tm2n,SandersForPresident
I love how he calls DT a moron on accident and catches himself lmao!! @2:30,unlmtdLoL,e96erm5,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962tga,SandersForPresident
"Welcome! This will serve as our general discussion megathread for Nov 6, 2018 Midterm Election Day. Tell us about how you've gotten involved!

And stick around after polls begin to close at 6pm EST! We'll be tracking results in about 150 federal races and about 100 state-level races in which progressive candidates have been endorsed by Bernie Sanders, Our Revolution, Justice Democrats, Democratic Socialists of America, National Nurses United, or Brand New Congress. We'll also be tracking 40 progressive ballot initiatives endorsed by Our Revolution, and various key Democratic races.

Our bold progressive candidates have spent the last 2 years working their tails off to proudly carry the banner of the progressive revolution, and tonight we'll celebrate and mourn the results together. Let's reach out and send some love to our progressive candidates!

Text ORVOTES to 83224 to find your polling place and go 🔥VOTE🔥

You can also tune in to TYT for live streaming coverage: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g0DUJLc52Kw",WhiskeyInferno,e96oxlf,SandersForPresident
"Suggested progressive election coverage streams:

[TYT The Young Turks (already live)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g0DUJLc52Kw)

[Democracy Now & The Intercept (from 7pm EST)](https://www.democracynow.org/live/watch_election_night_2018_coverage_with)

[Actify Press chat (7pm EST)](https://twitter.com/ActifyCHAT/status/1059935782977310721)

Feel free to reply with others.

edit: there was also Chapo",SpaceDetective,e96ummp,SandersForPresident
majority report is live,cornrowed_honkey,e975966,SandersForPresident
Kansas governorship went blue.,Patango,e97ew3z,SandersForPresident
"[ND doesn't require registration and 17 states provide it on the same day: CA (conditional voting), CO, CT, HI, ID, IL, IA, ME, MD, MT, MN, NH, NC, UT, VT, WI, WY, & DC. It may not be too late. Call 866-OUR-VOTE or text 'Our Vote' to 97779](https://twitter.com/KristenClarkeJD/status/1059294987404410880)",Chartis,e96zuib,SandersForPresident
"what did pelosi just say?  


get her the FUCK out  


""must work together both parties on legislation moving forward""  


NO. NO NO NO NO NO!   
STOP.TRYING.TO.PANDER.TO.REPUBLICANS.  


we concede and concede and concede, FUCK! 


Where the hell are all of you guys???
7 comments?!?!",Snuffaluffakuss,e97jmiw,SandersForPresident
"[VT Democrat election night with Christine Hallquist, Bernie Sanders, Peter Welch](https://www.burlingtonfreepress.com/story/news/2018/11/05/christine-hallquist-bernie-sanders-peter-welch-democrats-vermont-governor-election-results/1843999002)",Chartis,e96v719,SandersForPresident
yep,4now5now6now,e96sjd1,SandersForPresident
YAY Nina!,4now5now6now,e96sima,SandersForPresident
 https://betofortexas.com/call,Chartis,e94du4i,SandersForPresident
I’m skeptical but one can hope 🤞🏻🤞🏻,Doodoocabinet,e93l1ay,SandersForPresident
">A single-payer Medicare for All program is the best way to ensure all Americans get the health care they need.  

-[Beto](https://www.thenation.com/article/beto-orourke-fights-the-clampdown-in-texas/)  ",Chartis,e93ruzy,SandersForPresident
"Don't get complacent fellow Texans... We keep this going until the very end. Make sure your friends and family voted, because your vote is way more important than one may realize. ",LuisThe3rd,e93oj96,SandersForPresident
"I’m in Texas and a nervous wreck waiting to see what happens tomorrow. 

With Bernie, I was so naive. I thought no way someone with so much positivity and momentum could lose. 

I saw Beto speak a few months ago when he came to town and he gives you so much hope! But this time around I know how hard people will work to make sure someone like this doesn’t get too much power. 

",amandal0514,e93pras,SandersForPresident
I may not agree with Beto on everything but at this point I would have voted for the next person that walks pass my house. Ted Cruz is a horror movie. Had to retract his carpet bombing Iran plans. And he wants to be President. He is more dangerous than Trump because he is smarter. Knows how to play the political game better. If he wins it will be because of jobs. It is the one thing Republicans in Texas get right. And because Texas. fml ,broksonic,e93q9ug,SandersForPresident
"Hillary crushed Trump in early voting, but come Election Day lost the undecideds because she found a way to be more unlikeable and untrustworthy",Seemseasy,e93li9u,SandersForPresident
"[James Zogby](https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1045704182718697472), Chair of The Sanders Institute & Board Member of Our Revolution:  

* I pray that Beto O'Rourke can save us all from 6 more years of this mean spiritedness.  

---  

>It is not good enough to be a spectator. You have to be an activist. You have got to be involved. A good campaign needs a whole lot of people [knockin' on doors](https://ourrevolution.com/candidates/), [getting on the telephone](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank), [writing](https://text.forbernie.com/), doing [all kinds of important work.](https://votewithme.us/) 

>The moment is too late for people to say ""I'm not gonna get involved."" Not good enough. We are fighting for the future of the planet! So you can't sit back. You don't have that option.  

>If you're a yuman being you've gotta stand up, you gotta fight back. [Our Revolution is giving you that opportunity to get involved.](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/) I'm very proud of what Our Revolution is doing.  

>The political revolution is not just a campaign. It's gotta go on and on. Nina Turner has picked up that mantle. We're involving people all over this country.  

>I'm very excited. We're doing better than I even thought that we could. Congratulations to all the people involved in Our Revolution. Keep up the great work. We are winning.  

>We are winning this fight ideologically. And we're winning this fight in terms of bringing people into politics.  

>Thanks very much

-[Bernie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEyxtaQtfKg)",Chartis,e93myct,SandersForPresident
"If he manages to pull this off, It will be historic. Texas politics changed forever. ",MrSmallANDLoud,e9488fb,SandersForPresident
My wife and I voted for Beto. Fingers crossed 🤞 ,rChewbacca,e946dtg,SandersForPresident
"Guys, make calls! Even if you aren’t from TX. It’s the last major thing you can do to get people to vote for Beto.

A few notes:

1)You don’t have to use your phone. It’s a web app. It’s free.

2) The web app finds people for you, so you don’t have to keep redialing a ton of numbers. 

3) It gives you a script to read. You don’t have to make anything up.

4) At this point in the game it’s JUST getting likely dems to vote. You won’t have to convince anyone, know the local issues, or deal with angry republicans. It’s just asking them to vote.

5) It’s so easy that I can multi task low priority stuff at work while I’m waiting for the auto dials to get the next person on the phone. 

6) It works. I got 3 people to make a plan to vote in 30 mins. I spent 3 hours canvassing yesterday for the same results.

Here is a link: https://betofortexas.com/call/",OutofH2G2references,e94a6gp,SandersForPresident
"'Ah, sweet, that means I don't have to worry about voting' /s >.>

*reads quote again*... 

>if this continues",mandy009,e9467sq,SandersForPresident
"For the first time in my life, I might cheer for Texas. Come on, Lone Star State, the rest of us in the union are counting on your votes!",Evlwolf,e94amyl,SandersForPresident
At the Dallas rally right now!!!!,jak-o-shadow,e93zlaa,SandersForPresident
"That's hopeful. Which is why it will be such a shame when Texas reelects Ted Cruz, if people *in cities* don't vote tomorrow.",wooshock,e958c10,SandersForPresident
This is easily the race I'm most excited for. The thought of unseating Ted Cruz gets me hard.,heisenberg747,e95czsg,SandersForPresident
Vote!,the_shaman,e947b05,SandersForPresident
"Voted early for #Beto, I'll be back and forth to doctors appointments tomorrow but I'll definitely be looking forward to seeing how things play out across the nation!",IrkedCupcake,e94vemn,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e95r43e,SandersForPresident
Why do democrats always assume early voting = a vote for a democrat? ,CedTruz,e95tmoq,SandersForPresident
"Bah, no more votes needed, gonna win",jbest8283,e962m5q,SandersForPresident
Please dont say things like that,MarkyOchoa,e94mgyn,SandersForPresident
It would be a nice change for Texas.,Mr__Jeff,e95472r,SandersForPresident
"I'm excited for this because I live in Texas and voted for Beto, but based on the responses that I received previously about why Bernie didn't endorse Beto, I'm not sure why this is being posted here. He's clearly not progressive enough for OurRevolution.",TheEngine,e93mrgh,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94cxtw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e93rah3,SandersForPresident
The way this stuff has been handled.... I'm just kinda dead inside and hopeless at this point. ,Avid28,e94a8of,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94af0q,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94ojy2,SandersForPresident
"Probably not.  Probably as in statistically speaking based on the polls over the last month.  Maybe they are wrong, and the science of polling is itself a sham of self-fulfilling prophecy... but I don't think so.  Why is this in Sanders For President? Is this guy a socialist supposedly on the Sanders band-wagon now too?  ",AnonymousFuckass,e94xosc,SandersForPresident
"Making a point, why type the same thing over and over? ",Trustfaktor,e94cub7,SandersForPresident
"No way, but here's hoping",saul2015,e94m16b,SandersForPresident
No past trend shows it will continue sadly,dangshnizzle,e94520c,SandersForPresident
"Don't be. This needs to happen and we can make it happen if we believe in ourselves and each other to do the right thing and follow through. Everyone just needs to do their part today, and today only.

For the people who consider not voting,

TRUMP IS right about one thing. 

America isn't great anymore. We haven't been, since before I was born in the earlier 90's. This country of ours has been through a lot and done a lot of bad in the last couple decades. We've done some good, like legalizing gay marriage and electing a president while not a Saint by any means, wasn't a fucking nazi sympathizer.

NOW we have one in office.

ALL of the progress we've made is in jeopardy right now. Every advance for women, lgbtq+ rights, percentage we rely on green energy, even fucking racism in America which we all know now is rampant.

We need to take responsibility for this country which has a GREAT impact on the rest of the world which can't even do a THING about what kind of government we have in office.

If you don't care about America, at least care about the rest of the countries America can make life hell for if we don't do the right thing.

It's November 5th. It's time to vote. ",NihilisticNomes,e93ovbw,SandersForPresident
Why? Do you really think these new voters are more than 10% Republican?,buuuuuuddy,e950xyq,SandersForPresident
Most reasonable position imo,joshj516,e94mxec,SandersForPresident
"Damn, why did he wait so long to say it!  He's avoided saying ""Medicare For All"" for the entire race.",puertojuno,e949sub,SandersForPresident
Yeah I really hate stories like these. It's not over 'til it's over. Get out and vote.,RaindropBebop,e95hjmr,SandersForPresident
What if you know said friends and family will vote straight ticket Republican?,heisenberg747,e95d17o,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e94vf4a,SandersForPresident
"It boggles my mind that anyone could see Beto and Cruz and choose to vote for Cruz. Beto's speeches and demeanor are some of the most empathetic and compassionate I've seen in *decades* of watching politics. This dude is the real deal. To think that it's even a question that he would even have to compete against someone like Cruz is just insane. I don't even pretend to understand the realities of life in Texas, it's one of the few states I just haven't spent much time in despite having family there, but it just doesn't even register in my mind how anyone could see these two and even begin to consider Cruz a valid candidate.",TheMainTank,e947b5p,SandersForPresident
"I mean, with Bernie, it's clear that the DNC actively worked against him at every step of the way and fucked him over in the primaries to get their girl in.

I'm fairly certain that's why they started to kind of restructure themselves because, along with all of his supporters raising hell, he was more than likely doing the same behind closed doors considering how pissed he looked when he conceded victory to Hillary.",PostalFury,e949i28,SandersForPresident
"If it helps you not get as optimistic he is still a long shot.  He is doing amazingly well in the polls (much better than he himself expected) but ultimately there are just more republican leaning people in your state and they tend to be a lot more loyal.

BUT it is possible so I encourage fighting til the very end. Ring everyone you know who might want to vote for him and make sure they did!",stophamertime,e95axe3,SandersForPresident
"Its not just the people on the other side who we need to watch out for with the Bernies and the Betos, it’s the “purists” on our own side who will drop their support of a candidate the second he does anything they don’t like.  

If Beto gets elected I think he’ll do a lot of good, but I’m also sure he’ll end up making compromises and voting for things that not every supporter of his agrees with.  It’s vital that we not only work hard to get these progressive candidates into office but actually support them long term, even if we don’t agree with every single decision they make.",devmichaels,e965chc,SandersForPresident
"Tbqh polls for beto don't look that good. Like 6.5 points in Cruz's favor with the outcome across most of them consistently for Cruz.

Doesn't look good tbqh. 6.5 points isn't impossible to overcome (about the same chances Clinton had in Wisconsin) but the odds of it happening are very small.",JonWood007,e94o3bi,SandersForPresident
"> Ted Cruz is a horror movie.

Insert obligatory Zodiac Killer reference.",Hollowgolem,e94qj15,SandersForPresident
"\> If he wins it will be because of jobs. It is the one thing Republicans in Texas get righ

&#x200B;

Oh? do they?

Houston native here, we dont have unions, no one gets paid a living wage unless you are working in healthcare or the gas/oil industries. They dont get jobs right, they win because oil and gas is real damn strong here.  


Minmum wage is like 7.25 for christ sake

&#x200B;",xXConfuocoXx,e94hv0d,SandersForPresident
"You're right about Cruz being smart. He's criticizing the health bill, even if it goes against Trump and the rep party. I imagine this removes one big reason for people to ditch him in favor of Beto.",ThePiderman,e95i49u,SandersForPresident
Pokémon GO to the polls!,AlexRosaTur,e93mvts,SandersForPresident
Thankfully Beto is WAY more likable than her ,Harvickfan4Life,e93nbv8,SandersForPresident
"The problem was that she was never really likeable and people just didn't want Trump, until the undecideds decided they did. Beto is likeable by way more of his base than Hillary, she was just the only choice. People would've ran to the polls with Bernie. ",pase,e93wbfe,SandersForPresident
"hillary also alienated an entire generation of voters and dumped a ton of resources into GA and NC whilst ignoring her firewall in the rust belt.

Beto has embraced everyone and has visited every county at least once (has it been twice? I can't recall) and is an inspiration for many.",xxxCHIEFSxxx,e942yho,SandersForPresident
She still won the popular vote. ,hung_like_an_ant,e93mof6,SandersForPresident
Comey altered the election by reopening the Email investigation days before the election. That was pretty well documented.,mackinoncougars,e93pc91,SandersForPresident
Yah I remember Texas being blue for a long time in 2016 because of early voting or absentee ballots.,RBeck,e948opw,SandersForPresident
3 million votes say otherwise,laihipp,e95de2b,SandersForPresident
"She lost 80,000 people out of millions. And largely because Comey.",vreddy92,e95qjsp,SandersForPresident
">If you're a *yuman* being you've gotta stand up, you gotta fight back.

I can confirm that this is in fact a quote from Bernie Sanders.",overmindthousand,e93oggy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94a84o,SandersForPresident
Someone doing this got me to early vote. ,zebrawarrior,e94xhbl,SandersForPresident
how is it??,_BreakYoFace_,e94o8us,SandersForPresident
Higher voter turnout favors Democrats ,Harvickfan4Life,e95tpy8,SandersForPresident
Doesn't he only pass legislature at the federal level? It would be a change mostly for the US more than TX. Please correct me if I am misinformed. I'm about to head in to my tax office and vote.,Astarothian,e95n1w4,SandersForPresident
"[Our Revolution Endorses Beto](https://ourrevolution.com/candidates/beto-orourke/)  


[National Nurses United Endorses Beto O’Rourke in Texas U.S. Senate Race](https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/press/national-nurses-united-endorses-beto-orourke-texas-us-senate-race)",Chartis,e93nf8v,SandersForPresident
Beto has been endorsed by Our Revolution ,4ArthurDent2,e93ny41,SandersForPresident
"Bernie didn’t endorce Beto because this is a Texas race, and Beto wanted to keep it all about Texas",carminedg123,e93rtql,SandersForPresident
Okay but Beto > Zodiak Killer and it would be a huge statement win. ,pokersquirrel,e93mzt8,SandersForPresident
"It could also be that he did not want an endorsement from Sanders, for the purpose of appealing to more republicans and being seen as more homegrown than nationally endorsed. ",farmthis,e949od4,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e94dz6z,SandersForPresident
"You wrote in another thread

>Yes yes yes queen! Beto mi hermano! Mexicans for Beto!

I don't think we need to help you make up your mind.",MaxRenn,e93t9j1,SandersForPresident
"For starters, Beto ain’t taking PAC money, so he’s less likely to be corrupt like most of the senators are who really just care about their funding from donors and not what actually helps Americans. If you care about healthcare, abortion, weed, I’d vote for Beto. Look Beto up on his website or “on the issues.org”. Cruz just wants to deport any undocumented immigrant regardless if they are criminals or not and he wants to waste billions on a wall that won’t solve all that much. ",carminedg123,e93rr4r,SandersForPresident
"birth control can't be uninvented and crime has fallen since abortions became legal. I understand that probably isn't likely to change your feelings. but in our current system, if a kid gets cancer and their parents can't afford it, they die. war and keeping people out is a huge priority over the common good - investing in healthcare and public education. we can't live in disneyland (unless you're rich, I suppose you could) and these are the trade offs you have to choose",AngriestBird,e93shh4,SandersForPresident
"also, if you weren't already here would they let you in. Think carefully about how conservative you want to get",AngriestBird,e93sv07,SandersForPresident
"Lizards eat Mexicans. Cruz is a lizard. Hope that helps. If not, the joke may at least make you laugh. ",errie_tholluxe,e93rhcr,SandersForPresident
"do you want a cowardly snake elected or someone who actually cares about about Texas? it's almost that simple to decide. 

cruz will change his mind to whatever benefits him. like when he lost the Republican nomination to trump. guy took so much abuse from him and then turns around starts kissing his toes. pathetic if you ask me.",upvotes4jesus-,e93ud5t,SandersForPresident
"Hi `538commenter`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9udgrz/-/e93rah3/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e95ef80,SandersForPresident
"This is being remove for fear mongering. The rules define fear mongering as:

> Any post or public statement which spreads fear, intimidation, or unease but either has no direct or clear benefit to the greater goals of the sub or is intended to coerce subscribers into behaving or engaging in any way that they would not have done otherwise.

Please read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting something similar.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e94dwxv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e94riex,SandersForPresident
"yet here you are, interfering in democracy again.

&#x200B;

[https://www.reddit.com/r/EnoughTrumpSpam/comments/9ul1sd/looking\_for\_examples\_of\_election\_meddling\_by\_paid/](https://www.reddit.com/r/EnoughTrumpSpam/comments/9ul1sd/looking_for_examples_of_election_meddling_by_paid/)",evolutionfan,e9532nu,SandersForPresident
"Amen, 100%! I really hope you guys can pull this off, and you have all my best wishes from this side of the world. The most important long term aim must be to redesign the electoral system, end gerrymandering, power of individual lobbies, and corporate donors. Democracy needs to represent the people!",dshfjdk,e940pal,SandersForPresident
"That's the power of organizing. People coming together has a significant & beneficial influence on our world. We changed his mind. Press on!  

>I urge you all to never underestimate the value of your voice, the power of your vote, and the potential that comes from people organizing around issues they care deeply about. What seems impossible can be made possible when millions of people stand united.

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1058526149461053440)",Chartis,e94a2ru,SandersForPresident
Because he didn't want to spook the middle of the road early voters or organize the Cruz supporters with a talking point. Now it's the day before the election and it'll be a bit tricky for Cruz to get an attack ad using that quote. This move is to convince the liberals that might not turn up to get up and go out and won't have as much of an impact on the people that have already decided against him.,smilysmilysmooch,e94g11g,SandersForPresident
"I don't hold that against him. He's gotta walk a fine line in his state. For every 5 progressives, there are 6 people who still think the Soviet Union is a thing, that he's a KGB agent trying to undermine freedom or some shit. So, he's playing to his crowd. That means not being as outspoken as some of us might like. Under the circumstances, he's been pretty frikkin bold.",plitox,e955p9x,SandersForPresident
"I would love empirical data on anyone who has ever seen a story like this and decided ""guess I can stay home""

If someone is determined to vote, I think they'll vote, and if they don't, they weren't going to anyway.",robotzor,e964ugw,SandersForPresident
"Get them out there anyway, it’s not a democracy if we pick and choose who gets to vote. ",Ju9iter,e96337w,SandersForPresident
Then you get new friends and family /s,Deathlysouls,e961mfi,SandersForPresident
"The United States is the most right-wing first-world nation on the planet. Acting like any of the major players are extreme left shows a disturbing lack of global awareness. Bernie's policies aren't socialist, let alone communist, neither of which is a term you could define and adequately describe if your life depended on it. Anywhere else in the civilized world, everything he's suggested is pretty normal, middle-of-the-road stuff.

Regulated capitalism is. Not. Fucking. Communism. ",Sloppy1sts,e94x35a,SandersForPresident
"I'm sorry you feel that way. In a democracy,  one chooses their elected officials. I've done my civic duty,  as have many others. Tomorrow,  regardless of having the slightest chance, one way or another,  we shall see the results of the campaigns.",LuisThe3rd,e94vrw3,SandersForPresident
You think a moderate left wing politician is communist?,geschichte1,e94z9ae,SandersForPresident
What?,IceDota,e94vyxv,SandersForPresident
"Liberal bad, old ~~white~~ Cuban guy telling me what Texans want good. 

Also, he was born in Canada? What the actual fuck. How is he competing against a guy born and raised in El Paso?",CommondeNominator,e94a1o1,SandersForPresident
"My parents both voted for Cruz. The number one reason they voted for Cruz is that they are conservative Catholics (my dad is actually Catholic clergy, a deacon) and could never vote for a pro-choice candidate. Ever. It doesn't matter to them that Beto is Catholic himself and very much anti-abortion, just pro-choice.

Next, they don't like Beto because they see him as ""weird"" and ""fake"". If you haven't seen the political attack ads that run constantly here in Texas you might not understand, but his history as a punk rocker and the fact that he got a DUI at one point really concern them. The number one thing that makes him ""fake"" though is his use of the name Beto, even though he is white. To be honest, I almost agree with them here, how often do you ever see the man's last name on his campaign materials? It should be stated that I and my parents are Hispanic.

I've showed them speeches by Beto and tried to explain to them his message as best I can, and they have turned in their opinion of him quite a bit, but it always come back to abortion. As long as abortion is the king issue, democrats will always struggle in Texas. At least I can say my vote cancelled one of theirs out...",CylonBunny,e94gdxa,SandersForPresident
Today's episode of the New York times Daily podcast would shed some light on this for you. It was about white evangical women in Texas who are starting to side with Beto and there was a really good conversation of one of these women had with her dad. Worth a listen.,crak6389,e94tfsb,SandersForPresident
Because Texas. ,JonWood007,e94o46b,SandersForPresident
"I've been to 47 states. I take a valium and say, ""Wake me when we get to New Mexico"", when in Texas. ",SinthiaVee,e95ebpz,SandersForPresident
It's all team mentality these people will vote for anyone with a red R next to there name over a liberal ,25_M_CA,e94nyvx,SandersForPresident
Easy - it’s the same people who think (somehow) Trump is better than Obama at anything.,mc_hambone,e9563py,SandersForPresident
"Give yesterday's NYT The Daily podcast a listen. Pretty much explains all you need to know about Cruz supporters.  Still though, it's an even handed story and worth a listen.",Deaner3D,e958fj4,SandersForPresident
"Texas is a toss-up to me. A major influx of people from progressive states, or at least from urban areas of red states looking for better jobs, are going to make Texas a harder call in statewide elections. ",robotzor,e965dsv,SandersForPresident
"More recent polls show him closing the gap, with the most recent poll having them tied",mistasweeney,e94qgj0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94phbg,SandersForPresident
LOL somebody got it. I thought no one was going to catch it. ,broksonic,e94qwnk,SandersForPresident
"I should have explained more. Low unemployment is what I meant. Yeah, the jobs are not good. ",broksonic,e94ibug,SandersForPresident
"How do you do, fellow kids?",filmantopia,e93zu4r,SandersForPresident
Kill me please,SwaggJones,e94i88m,SandersForPresident
Im just chillin'.... in Cedar Rapids!,Dblcut3,e951fnp,SandersForPresident
Beto doesn't talk to people like he expects their unquestioning support from the get-go. He tries to win people over with every speech.,The_Adventurist,e94l319,SandersForPresident
"> until the undecideds decided they did.

Undecideds stayed home",robotzor,e940nvp,SandersForPresident
"Her staff also pulled voting day funding from the rust belt and put it in urban population centers like Chicago and New Orleans. They thought they had the electoral college wrapped up and wanted a big, big popular vote win so they could have a ""mandate"" in office to do whatever they wanted.",The_Adventurist,e94lcdh,SandersForPresident
The republicans fielded the only candidate they had who could lose to Bernie.  In response the Democrats fielded the only candidate they had who could lose to Trump.,chalkwalk,e93urrn,SandersForPresident
The undecideds swinging heavily to trump is what gave him the edge.  Hillary had demographic and numerical advantages going in because there’s more dems than reps.,Seemseasy,e93n64g,SandersForPresident
Against Trump. Pretty sure my Chihuahua can do better than her.,dohdat,e95cmth,SandersForPresident
And also closed it before the election,BopTheDrass,e93px1b,SandersForPresident
"He was put in a tough position. I think he gambled and lost. I think he assumed Hillary would win and if it came out that they had reopened the investigation days before election day and hadn't told the public, this would further bolster the claims of ""crooked Hillary"" having the FBI under her thumb and giving her political favors during her campaign. Either way, he was going to cause a shit storm that would get him fired, I think he chose the most upfront way he could so he wouldn't be fired in disgrace.",The_Adventurist,e94lini,SandersForPresident
">That was pretty well documented.

Lol i love little sentences like this that dont actually mean anything.",xXConfuocoXx,e94hzhn,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e94yhe4,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94a9v5,SandersForPresident
"It was great. The guy is a great speaker, good ideas and is a decent human being. He spoke great spanish, incorporating it into his speech. Great energy and is excited about being able to help people. Thats the kind of person I want representing me.",jak-o-shadow,e94p97i,SandersForPresident
And elderly... as far as early goes.,robotzor,e965qrp,SandersForPresident
"You’re not wrong, he does. Which makes the whole “Change for Texas” mantra fairly disingenuous. He’s running to represent the electorate and best interests of Texas in the US Senate, not bring change to Texas. If he was really interested in changing Texas he’d be running for Governor or a seat on the Texas Legislature.

Honestly the fact that a pro-Bernie subreddit is pushing so hard for Beto is not a good look for Beto in the eyes of many Texans because he positioned himself as a moderate during the campaign. It just provides confirmation for what many moderate Texas voters thought about Beto, that he was a far left democrat disguising himself as a moderate to trick Texas voters.",Made_of_Tin,e95sdon,SandersForPresident
"Okay, sorry, Our Revolution endorsed him, but Bernie has not.

And [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9trjgy/beto_orourke_dems_abandoned_workers_embraced_big/e8z6v7e/?context=0) is the original question I posed about Bernie not endorsing him, and the responses saying he's not progressive enough. So what's the disconnect?",TheEngine,e93o0db,SandersForPresident
"This is the answer. It’s the same reason Obama hasn’t come to Texas, Beto doesn’t want it. ",dinoscool3,e93x01l,SandersForPresident
"Yeah but maybe Cruz said something about family and god the very next day, now confused. People are dense, we're weak, we latch on to what we care about more than what's important. ",pase,e93wp48,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94hhri,SandersForPresident
Organizing only works to affect one party. The Democrats. So keep organizing and keep pushing. ,revolutionhascome,e95jepy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94j008,SandersForPresident
They got him!  The dreaded P.E.O.P. got him!,kwhitegocubs,e956xcm,SandersForPresident
"Funny that you should ask.

https://old.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/9udi9x/cmv_media_outlets_sharing_exit_polls_hurts/e93etow/

Your instincts were inaccurate. It *does* affect them.",letmeexplainitforyou,e965n1n,SandersForPresident
Fuck i meant to gild you but I gilded the parent comment on accident.,TheRealRemyLeBeau,e964b85,SandersForPresident
"No? Why the fuck is it considered acceptable to vote against human rights and demonstrably harmful and environmentally disastrous policies? It's not arbitrary picking and choosing. 

Some candidates will institute policies that cause immense harm and suffering, and are anti-science, and others will have good, useful policies. Are you going to tell a trans person beat to death in the bathroom they were forced to use that it was worth it because Cletus got the freedom to vote to take away your freedom? That's fucking stupid.

Human rights, the health of the environment, and evidence-based policy should be baseline, not something uneducated people get to vote away on a whim.",EdwardPenishands965,e96bn17,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e94waip,SandersForPresident
"Fear politics. I heard a clip of him on NPR today saying that democrats are coming not only for jobs, but for everything it means to be American",EonBlueAegis,e94johb,SandersForPresident
"> Also, he was born in Canada? What the actual fuck.

As a born Canadian who lived in Texas for a while: we're sorry (but accept no responsibility.)",Gavither,e94i2w2,SandersForPresident
His name isn’t Beto ,Dawn-of-the-DON2020,e95n3be,SandersForPresident
">The number one thing that makes him ""fake"" though is his use of the name Beto, even though he is white. 

Oh yeah? As opposed to RAFAEL CRUZ'S use of the name ""Ted"" even though he's a Canadian Cuban? ",MinimalPuebla,e94h71u,SandersForPresident
"He explained the Beto one before: Anybody named Robert or Roberto in El Paso just go by Beto, regardless of if they're Hispanic or not. At least that's what he says.",lightjedi5,e94uy0v,SandersForPresident
"My dad told me the other day that he voted for Ted Cruz because Beto can't even use his real name.  I told him ""You know Ted Cruz's real name is Rafael?""  And he got real quiet.  Propaganda exists because it works.",techmaster242,e95dn5q,SandersForPresident
"By that logic, they must love the communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu, who banned abortion",BopTheDrass,e96ckxd,SandersForPresident
"https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2018/senate/tx/texas_senate_cruz_vs_orourke-6310.html#polls

Looks pretty consistent for cruz. 

https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/2018-midterm-election-forecast/senate/texas/

According to this which features that poll, said poll leans democratic in its bias and therefore shouldn't be trusted vs the larger trend.

Sorry, I like beto too, I just don't see him winning. I hope he does. If the dems can carry texas OR tennessee, as well as the 7 swing states up for grabs, they can take the senate. I think this is highly unlikely though. ",JonWood007,e94rnrw,SandersForPresident
"Oh... that's just Texas man. We work; or we die. 😂


",xXConfuocoXx,e94ifbb,SandersForPresident
It's absolutely possible to have an economy with 0% unemployment. That doesn't mean everyone is getting paid.,Bad_at_thins,e94swqb,SandersForPresident
And he doesn't talk like the aliens from Mars Attacks.  Nyak nyak nyak nyak!,techmaster242,e95dq5l,SandersForPresident
That sounds more like it. ,pase,e9412ty,SandersForPresident
"When you run two extremely wealthy serial liars who live in Manhattan, wear ugly looking suits, casually talk about bombing countries and killing their leaders, and have fake blond hair, it becomes harder for the voting public to tell them apart and they stay home.",The_Adventurist,e94l8dc,SandersForPresident
"yep. i was in a safe blue state so my 2nd nightmare (1st being hillary blowing it to trump) was her getting a ""mandate"" when in reality everyone was scared shitless of Trump getting in, but her saying it legitimized her neoliberal warhawkish policies.

So that is why I voted Jill Stein because my state was polling at +30% or something ridiculous for Hillary, and of course she got all the EV there.

And for the record I asked my friends who were staying home in battleground states to get out and vote. Some did, many didn't.

I can't blame them either.",xxxCHIEFSxxx,e9520il,SandersForPresident
The irony is that Trump won the narrowest victory in decades yet he isn't acting shy at all - he's walking around like he's Reagan in 84 or Johnson in 64,hueylongsgiantdong,e95qsis,SandersForPresident
"I disagree, Bernie could have destroyed the entire Republican field if the DNC had let him into the general. All you have to do is look at the hypothetical matchups from early 2016.",teuast,e942422,SandersForPresident
I believe this is what happened. And the undecideds weren't a big number - but they were in the right states to give Trump razor thing margins to win there.,knorben,e95f6zw,SandersForPresident
"Doesn’t mean damage wasn’t done by bringing World wide press to it days before the election...

Many more people saw the reopening and much less heard about the conclusion.",mackinoncougars,e93ru4q,SandersForPresident
"One problem- he kept his mouth shut about an investigation into trump colluding with foreign powers. He violated policy for this - he was advised not to, and still did it. The guy was a partisan hack who didn't realize until later what he had done. Let's not try to give him outs for actively choosing to violate policy.. 

",tragicdiffidence12,e94ztie,SandersForPresident
"Even the WH says it...smh


http://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/04/white-house-admits-james-comey-swung-the-election-to-trump.html",mackinoncougars,e94jdqc,SandersForPresident
If you read the comment you’ll see it. It as actually a counterpoint . . .,mackinoncougars,e94zl0x,SandersForPresident
Good luck tomorrow! ,_BreakYoFace_,e94q1gk,SandersForPresident
"I ended up voting for him anyways, but mostly out of disdain for Cruz. I'm usually more to the right of center but I just cant stand Cruz. It does make me sad that this won't change anything for Texas specifically other than maybe inspiring us to vote more, which is a good thing.",Astarothian,e95uh11,SandersForPresident
"Endorsements from Sanders shouldn't be your only criteria.  

We're talking about Texas here, so the brand of ""left"" politics that can win their will probably be different than what Bernie like to stamp name on.",slax03,e93pbny,SandersForPresident
why is this the conversation you want to have right now,election_info_bot,e93otv2,SandersForPresident
"It's possible that Bernie hasn't endorsed Beto because it would actually hurt Beto in Texas.

Bernie supporters are already going to vote nearly 100% for Beto. For independents, Texas might be the sort of state where being endorsed by Bernie does more harm than good. ",columbo222,e941f93,SandersForPresident
"In addition to taking care of the duties in his Senate office as well as his office as Ranking Member of the Senate's Budgetary Committee he founded Friends of Bernie Sanders (his campaign), The Sanders Institute which educates about democracy & justice, Our Revolution that endorses candidates and mobilizes activists, & Progressives International will foster our international progressive movement. And he organized the Unity Reform Commission of the DNC as well. On top of all that he's a family man and an author. He's a very busy guy and only endorses people he personally knows as far as I can tell. I'm gratefully Bernie has the time to endorse anybody, let alone campaign across the nation for some of them. I trust his delegation. If Our Revolution, James Zogby personally, and NNU say he's worth supporting. That's aces in my book. That he's in favor of Medicare For All and not Ted Cruz is superb as well. ",Chartis,e93oz92,SandersForPresident
Because he is not Progressive. He is center at most. But to be fair center is closer to left than everything else. It is a big step in Texas. But what people need to understand what is more important is not the candidates it is  people organizing. Groups push forward the policies and candidates. If you want progressives to win you going to have to make the groups bigger than the Leaders and candidates. ,broksonic,e93qtix,SandersForPresident
And it’s ok if Beto isn’t quite as progressive as Bernie. He’s seems to be hitting a lot of good marks and I’m sure he’ll be a great senator if he lives up to his word,carminedg123,e93x2o1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94hnva,SandersForPresident
Not entirely accurate! The tea party wing of Republicans didn't come out of nothing.,robotzor,e964yz8,SandersForPresident
"If you ask any trumpy that makes Democrats weak because we can change our mind. Some I've talked to seem to think that means we that they can't know what they're talking about if they ""can be swayed so easily.""",jarwastudios,e95s7em,SandersForPresident
"Lol!

Thanks. Fixed it.",plitox,e958k2u,SandersForPresident
"Thanks dude, first gilded comment! ",Ju9iter,e964ipy,SandersForPresident
Yes? They should still vote even if you don’t agree with their choices. If you think yours are better then go out and there and convince them as to why. ,Ju9iter,e96dmke,SandersForPresident
"It isn't not a democracy, either. It's a representative democracy. 

Effectively, though, it's a plutocracy thanks mostly to the right wing. ",Sloppy1sts,e94wspv,SandersForPresident
"Obligatory ""Liberals are patriotic Americans too"".",Unlucky13,e94q25i,SandersForPresident
Oh don't forget Beto wants to legalize heroin and meth.,AdvocateF0rTheDevil,e965hve,SandersForPresident
You are only forgiven if you pass the joint. ,PokeZelda64,e94ngxc,SandersForPresident
"Calgary, Alberta. His dad wasn’t even a US citizen until 2005. ",CommondeNominator,e94od7g,SandersForPresident
Cruz's name isn't Ted. ,CommondeNominator,e96kere,SandersForPresident
"touche, indeed.  lol. what the fuck. ",_BreakYoFace_,e94nzkv,SandersForPresident
"Fair points. Thanks for the info. They're only giving a 1.5% bump when accounting for the bias. I'll take the overall trending in Beto's direction as a positive sign. With high voter turnout, poll accuracy is reduced.",mistasweeney,e95b2gb,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, if you look at how the voting went, there were four states where Trump won by extremely slim margins to get him the electorate votes needed to win. In those places he won by less than the number of people that supported Bernie Sanders that voted for Trump. 

While the voter turnout was, as normal for the US, abysmal, Hillary would have been better off if those people *had* stayed home. The chances of them actually being Democrats that voted agains their party for Trump was pretty slim, those were probably people that were ""having trouble deciding"" aka Bernie supporters that were actually Republicans. 

The game these days is divide and conquer. Both party's loyals will split to their side and then the propaganda can work to try and sway those few left without a ""side"". After years of targeted propaganda against Clinton, this was pretty easy work to fool those in the middle that Trump might possibly be better. Turns out that was the furthest possibility from reality we could have ever imagined.",knorben,e95f398,SandersForPresident
"Also, Bernie's policy proposals are hugely popular in the US. The Democrats have ignored them for years because their banking and corporate fundraising efforts would be threatened if they pursued them. The Democrats promote each other based on their fundraising efforts, so the ones who have the closest ties to the biggest money get the most influence in the party. The GOP is exactly the same, there's just no civil-war in the GOP about doing what is right for citizens vs doing what is right for a few donors with very deep pockets. The DNC has George Soros, the GOP has dozens of Soros's.

The DNC has been trying to walk the tight rope between pissing off corporations and pissing off voters for a long time.",The_Adventurist,e94ltdf,SandersForPresident
What you said is 100% in agreement with the post you replied to.,techmaster242,e95drgc,SandersForPresident
Folks just didn't trust Hillary and that's why she lost. Unlikeable candidate running for office offering the same old corporate bullshit with no charisma.,Nierdris,e93u0bk,SandersForPresident
Thank you! ,jak-o-shadow,e94uhd2,SandersForPresident
"> so the brand of ""left"" politics that can win their will probably be different

I am worried this line of thinking will further alienate the possible voters who *are* aligned into just staying home again. Centrisism has failed us hard.",robotzor,e940w7s,SandersForPresident
"Of course they're not my only criteria. As I said, I voted for Beto, rallied with Beto in Cedar Park, have a sign out on my front lawn for Beto. I'm 100% Team Beto. I'm just saying, there's a disconnect in this sub, and based on the previous responses I got it feels like Beto isn't passing some kind of purity test, and I'm hoping it's not because Bernie has refrained from endorsing him. His name carries weight, and while Our Revolution is ""his"" organization, and their endorsements are good and well and fine, I would hate for Texas ""true progressives"" who think Bernie is holding out because Beto hasn't said the words ""M4A"" or ""Free college tuition"" to decide not to go to the polls. 

2016 should be a stark reminder that too many people think this way. I hope those people have changed their mindset, but I live in reality.",TheEngine,e93q4li,SandersForPresident
"Wait, is this a real bot? Are you ELIZA?

""What is it about this conversation that you think you want to have it right now?""",TheEngine,e93p9aj,SandersForPresident
"Beto has said that he doesn’t want outside politicians stumping for him. Beto’s strategy has been to keep his campaign locally focused, and to make the case that he is the best Senator for the people of his state.

If Beto wanted an endorsement, I bet Bernie would be happy to oblige.",Zepherx22,e946fkg,SandersForPresident
Which of Beto’s policies aren’t progressive?,HippieGypsyThug,e93rz2f,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e94jgxo,SandersForPresident
Because they are fascists. ,revolutionhascome,e95x9as,SandersForPresident
:D,TheRealRemyLeBeau,e97uc8n,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e94x6n0,SandersForPresident
I'd argue that the left is more patriotic than the right these days.,EonBlueAegis,e94spys,SandersForPresident
"This is the shit we need to claim, we love our country! We want better programs that help people, not just bullshit grandstanding and blatant lies from phony “patriots”!",egon0212,e94ueua,SandersForPresident
I almost posted a very angry response before I realized which comment you were replying to lol. Happy election day!,EonBlueAegis,e9664wr,SandersForPresident
They'll pass it to America's mitten tomorrow.,ekbowler,e94ozzz,SandersForPresident
The West coast passed the joint to Canada. Texas can take a puff but can't inhale yet. ,invno1,e94z18a,SandersForPresident
He said only Trump could have lost to Bernie. I said all of them would have lost to Bernie.,teuast,e95efck,SandersForPresident
"It’s really not though. That’s maybe why she didn’t obliterate Trump, but she absolutely would have won without being tied up in investigations.

Those investigations caused trust issues. Swing voters lost confidence, then stayed home or swing their votes the other way.",mackinoncougars,e93uvfo,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but they were kind of swallowing their pride until the Comey letter comes out. Then they think ""She was crooked this whole time I'm not gonna stand in line for an hour to vote for this psycho"" and here we are. 

&#x200B;

The reason the comey letter, which actually said nothing, was so bad - it reinforced every bad thing ppl think about Hillary.",hueylongsgiantdong,e95qw0y,SandersForPresident
">A single-payer Medicare for All program is the best way to ensure all Americans get the health care they need.  

-[Beto](https://www.thenation.com/article/beto-orourke-fights-the-clampdown-in-texas/)  ",Chartis,e93r5ne,SandersForPresident
"They are politicians and I can assure you they think these things through. Perhaps him running in Texas might have something to do with it? What if support from Sanders hurt Beto's chances leading up to the election? If Our Revolution endorsed Beto, an organization essentially started by Bernie, I think it's safe to assume Bernie approves of his candidacy.",lalaohhi,e942qs0,SandersForPresident
Haha. Sorry. Bot has a fairly active human babysitter that can't keep quiet sometimes.,election_info_bot,e93x74j,SandersForPresident
"On Israel. O’Rourke met the Israel lobby giant AIPAC in 2017. He is pro Israel. Where I would think Progressives would be on the side of the Palestinians. Or at least should. 

On his website on the Issues on the economy it says. 
Promote policies that encourage companies to focus on returning investments back to their consumer, their employees, and to the community. That has no teeth and is something Hilary would say.

On National Security
Provide the necessary financial resources and support to Texas military bases and facilities to ensure that they can accomplish their missions.
Every Republican says we need to spend more on military. 

Congress must work with our military leaders to clearly define victory so that our service members and our citizens know what we are fighting for.
That will never happen and if they do it will be pro war propaganda. 

And the biggest omission no raising of taxes to the rich to break up the concentration of wealth. ",broksonic,e9444j4,SandersForPresident
Yep.,jarwastudios,e95yhfd,SandersForPresident
"I didn't used to, but it's become increasingly more clear in the decade since I reached adulthood that the Republican party is objectively more evil and blatantly corrupt than the Democrats.

If you consider actual criminal indictments of just members of the executive branch over the past ~50 years, the Republicans have over 150 to the Democrats' 19. That's *8 times* as many.

Reagan's trickle-down bullshit that the right has been pushing despite clear failure for over 30 years is directly responsible for the fact that the ""richest nation on earth"" has more poverty and wealth inequality than almost any of its peers. 

The right ignores and denies science and pushes hypocritical theocratic bullshit all the time.

The right wing creates international enemies and more terrorism through their neoconservative global conquests.

The right promotes corporate freedoms while stifling individual freedoms.

The right has been selling out working Americans for personal gain for decades.

I could go on and on, but the point is that while the Democrats certainly have rampant corruption in their ranks, there are a steadily growing number of decent, pro-middle class anti-corporatist Democrats. On the other hand, the Republicans cannot reject corruption at this point because they have literally incorporated it into the philosophy of their party. Their slogans and soundbites are designed to make their voters comfortable with giving up their power and money so that corporate interests may have more of it. We spent more on corporate welfare for the rich than we do on social welfare for the poor.

""Both sides are the same"" is literally right-wing propaganda designed to keep disillusioned liberals home on voting day. Republicans, no matter how vile their candidates are, don't get disillusioned because they've been brainwashed for decades that liberals are America's #1 enemy, and they should vote for a massively corrupt Republican over a spooky, evil ""communist"" liberal.

Fun fact: Socialists and communists hate liberals. Not that Democrats are anything but conservative compared to the rest of the world, anyway.

Oh, and, ya know, Democrats aren't guilty of literal treason.",Sloppy1sts,e94zzjm,SandersForPresident
"Fucking yes. ""Both sides are the same"" doesn't hold up to any level of scrutiny. There's some overlap for sure. That does not make them the same.",Condawg,e951cdc,SandersForPresident
You honestly think anyone cares about your negative attitude? Shut up if you don't care about voting. No one cares what you think Korey. ,Th_Daltor,e94yp82,SandersForPresident
"We love the people in our country, not just blindly loving country in the empty gesture method the right has seized upon.

 In other words, they love the symbol. We love what the symbol represents.",Unlucky13,e94ylob,SandersForPresident
I had lifelong republican voting friends tell me they'd be switching over to vote for Bernie. ,sourdieselfuel,e95eydy,SandersForPresident
"Remember boys and girls, it is never the DNC's own fault for why they failed!",robotzor,e940qgd,SandersForPresident
"They shouldn't have backed that horse, but they did. DWS and co. rigged that shit against Bernie. You reap what you sow. The Comey investigation didn't make me not vote for Hillary, her and the shady shit they pulled did it all on* its own. ",MandingoPants,e93xfb6,SandersForPresident
"Commenting on how folks just didn't trust Hillary:

>It's really not though.

>Those investigations caused trust issues.

So which one was it? It can't be both.",foxinHI,e94iq4f,SandersForPresident
"You won’t fool me, sentient bot!",captwafflepants,e93ykxr,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e94zjv7,SandersForPresident
"And that is the difference between patriotism and nationalism, the former beleives in the ideals, what we can be and strive to be, the latter just blindly believes what that we are the best",Dracomarine,e94z8un,SandersForPresident
"And you're in Wisconsin. Where I presume they ended up voting for Trump.

Take note, DNC.",teuast,e95g16a,SandersForPresident
"You did not understand the comment. The investigates caused trust issues, not Hillary being Hillary caused trust issues... you know how in my part of the argument was about how Comey caused the change. And the other person disagreed, saying it was just Hillary being herself. Understand now?

So, not only can it be both, but who to blame is the sole purpose of the argument...",mackinoncougars,e94j94y,SandersForPresident
"Im not delusional because I'm not arguing that they are. Im simply letting you know what everyones thinking about whatever it is youre saying. 

Youre delusional if you think anyone cares what you have to say.",Th_Daltor,e951bhj,SandersForPresident
"I wish.... thank you to any republicans who helped us with our dream of the great Canova replacing the corrupt dws.

I'm not getting my hopes up but I donated",4now5now6now,e96szg0,SandersForPresident
I think the problem will be people going to the polls and only voting next to the (D) because they don't want to get voter shamed by people who blame Jill Stein for giving us Trump. ,StockmanBaxter,e973cnc,SandersForPresident
"Needless to say, classes shouldn't be held on election day anywhere you have to vote in person. At least for several hours.

Not to mention work hours.

Why not mail ballots?",Icantweetthat,e967b65,SandersForPresident
">This election could most likely be won or lost on whether young people decide to turn out today. Thank you to all the young activists who are walking out today and making their voices heard at the polls. We need you more than ever.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1999585260096468)  ",Chartis,e95zyhs,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://registration.elections.myflorida.com/CheckVoterStatus): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e965gki,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://registration.elections.myflorida.com/CheckVoterStatus): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e95pl9x,SandersForPresident
"So far I'm counting 39.2% voter turnout. Over 90 million people cast ballots and took legislative control over an oligarchic organization. Millions for the first time. We Kochblocked evil. The losses [prove that facade isn't enough.](https://twitter.com/carterforva/status/1060007470406529024) Substance counts, and that's a win in itself.

More progressives have been elected than ever before, and we're organized and building media too. Muslim women (who have hella progressive policies and reject corporate cash) and scientists are being elected as federal politicians. They came after Bernie HARD and he still got over 2/3rds of the vote.

Marijuana is legal all over the place. That's not supposed to be something that's even imaginable. [1.4 million Americans earned the right to vote again.](https://ourrevolution.com/press/our-revolution-statement-floridas-second-chances-victory/) A 15$ bill will be passed before Easter that's going to shape the mind of America and lift millions out of poverty. Medicare For All has it's own caucus. College For All is part of the DNC platform. The war in Yeman is going to end.

This is what y'all did. I'm damn proud of you.

Trump hates what you did even more than he hates who you are. Kudos.

[A green new deal is coming.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be&t=176) And a job guarantee too that will shape this planet even more than when FDR introduced minimum wage.

You are earning a comfortable retirement, a future for humanity, and the sleep of purpose filled lives. You are my heroes. Thank you.

There are over 1000 public officers who are going to work tomorrow to represent the interests of the people because of our efforts since 2016.  

The bolder is rolling. That's victory.",Chartis,e97p7qt,SandersForPresident
"That's probably the best thing I have read online. Thanks, progressive Americans. Your fight gives us hope for a better world. ",TheDailyBeaver,e986hik,SandersForPresident
"please let's not mention them.... many are marginalized with no options and Bernie cares about them because they are humans. He wants them to have  free ducation , fee vocational training jobs, healthcare a life and clean water.
Let's hope if Bernie runs they vote for the one who actually care about all of us! Bernie!",4now5now6now,e96st27,SandersForPresident
DeLeon.,jake3030,e96yffb,SandersForPresident
"16 OR candidates https://ourrevolution.com/candidates/

I was surprised at the progress DeLeon made!",4now5now6now,e970tqj,SandersForPresident
Feinstein is horrible. ,fixedelineation,e9779mo,SandersForPresident
Thanks I was leaning towards him a little after reading a few of his issues,kid_tiger,e96ykar,SandersForPresident
More comprehensive compiled list here: https://www.reddit.com/r/BernieSanders/wiki/endorsementsbybernie,seamslegit,e95otas,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962tws,SandersForPresident
Donated to Christine Hallquist......No matter what we are priming the pump for 2020,4now5now6now,e96ubz5,SandersForPresident
"I don't think we should be asking this question right now, there are a bunch of hypothetical questions we could ask and maybe none of them would be correct. For now i would like to ask you all to commit to a draft Bernie run and motivate him to run.",HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e97is0y,SandersForPresident
He will win unless they rig it again,fuck_youre_dead,e97k9vx,SandersForPresident
"Depends on us. Likely he'll win. There's been a hella lot of [groundwork](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) and [movement building.](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/) Polling has him 2nd behind Biden, though he's showing [stronger than Joe](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png) against Trump in the general. Truth is it's too early but our future is well worth the fight!",Chartis,e97mtpx,SandersForPresident
"I don't think he should run for President.  I think he should put all of his efforts behind someone younger, and run as VP. Like an Obama Biden ticket.  ",junkdunktunk,e97ib2b,SandersForPresident
"VP is such a pointless position for him to be in, either run for President or stay in the Senate",killbren_,e97sbdx,SandersForPresident
Please don’t give up we need you,Doodoocabinet,e968ptz,SandersForPresident
bring a book or a game...just vote,4now5now6now,e96t2rv,SandersForPresident
"everytime we support a candidate.... even if they do not win... they register more voter and spread awareness and ideas

This helps us win",4now5now6now,e96uyb8,SandersForPresident
 Not if the taste of defeat blows ass.,namenotneeded,e97mig3,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962tq9,SandersForPresident
"* The government guarantees an education for 56+ million kids from K-12th grade. States and local governments coordinate to transport kids to/from school. Schools are staffed with nurses, counselors, librarians, coaches, teachers, etc. 

* They teach kids to read, write, play instruments, speak foreign languages, etc. They provide meals on site. Teachers evaluate progress on a regular basis, meeting with parents and connecting students with other services as needed.   

* Each district is responsible for oversight of schools in its jurisdiction. Schools offer a rich array of after-school activities and provide late bus services for those who participate.  

* 56.6 million kids. Every single day. If we can do this, we can run a job guarantee for 15 million or so adults who want work and can't find jobs anywhere else.",Chartis,e96g4h9,SandersForPresident
"They should not be mentioning their party.... If you are a new citizen... maybe they were trying to make you feel comfortable.

We are democrats so don't be scared type of thing. I think they were trying to reassure you ... but in doing so were out of line",4now5now6now,e9709v8,SandersForPresident
"Are you saying a polling place volunteer made a reference to them all being democrats? If so, did you get their name? I believe you can report them to the polling place admin (they go by different names, but they are the one's responsible for all of the voting activity). It varies by state, but generally a polling place worker is not supposed to disclose any personal political stances or opinions while working.",SmartassPornAddict,e96ppt8,SandersForPresident
"Basically haha, I had a feeling it wasn’t allowed and they did it to try and persuade my because I was 19 haha. I didn’t get their names but I don’t feel as if I want to go through the process of reporting anyone. ",tvjjerome,e96puv5,SandersForPresident
Good for you for not letting it get to you and thank you for voting!,SmartassPornAddict,e96sgkf,SandersForPresident
">Saw a recent poll 

No, you saw Canova repeating as fact a hearsay claim by this guy:

http://floridapolitics.com/archives/268228-javier-manjarres-accuses-parkland-father-of-exploiting-childs-death

https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/fl-reg-javier-manjarres-fake-donald-trump-endorsement-20180801-story.html

http://floridapolitics.com/archives/269829-manjarres-plays-tricks-mailer

https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/fl-florida-school-shooting-david-hogg-ted-deutch-javier-manjarres-20180405-story.html

Grifters gotta grift, I guess.",SwallowAtTheHollow,e97pmmf,SandersForPresident
"Just forget about retribution vs. DWS; that's not how this country operates. ""Partisan hacks get golden parachutes"" is a central feature of US politics. Now more than ever, with Republicans holding the Senate (and thus the courts) for the foreseeable future and poised to keep gerrymandering as effective as prior, winning the popular vote by high single digits has to be the new baseline, and we have to pick our fights.",S3lvah,e97sd2l,SandersForPresident
"If we can't hold the democratic party accountable, Republicans will continue to win elections. Sure. The Democratic party will get some short-term gains now due to Trump.

But we all know that more neoliberalism leads to right-wing populism. We should absolute target every corrupt democrat in safe districts. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e97u9yi,SandersForPresident
"I agree, but unseating DWS would require another AOC-type rarity, which isn't a realistic expectation in a single given race. As such, it IMO shouldn't be relied on as a means of targeting any single representative (but rather, running lots of 'Alexandrias' to target right-wing Dems as a whole, in the hope that some of them will get knocked off).",S3lvah,e98v5fp,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962upg,SandersForPresident
"About 70% of Americans want universal healthcare right now

… and yet Republicans insist that universal healthcare is ""anti-American"" … because they are using a Newspeak definition of ""American values"".",HammerBioLizard,e94gqd7,SandersForPresident
"Well, almost no one thinks healthcare should be ""wrong.""

Bummer about the missing letter, OP =P

Edit autocorrect from ""later"". D'oh! ",Or_That,e93mmnj,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1057046537317048320,Chartis,e93dhus,SandersForPresident
"I think you missed a ""letter"", =P",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e93qhwj,SandersForPresident
"Ha, that's so me.",Or_That,e93r9uh,SandersForPresident
"Pritzker by a mile. He supports marijuana legalization, a public option, a progressive income tax. Rauner is an anti-union Koch stooge.",inthedollarbin,e96hsku,SandersForPresident
All the candidates endorsed in Illinois by [P_R](https://www.reddit.com/r/political_revolution/wiki/endorsements) are Democrats with the exception of Chicago mayoral candidate Troy LaRaviere. It's much the same story for other endorsement lists like https://www.localberniecrats.com & https://ourrevolution.com/candidates. Voting for Pritzker would not only add to the message sent to the GOP but also help ~~their~~ the Democratic mandate.,Chartis,e96gqra,SandersForPresident
"Both major party candidates are billionaires and in my opinion not too in touch with day-to-day life of most people. This site will tell you all the candidates, if you can't see yourself voting for Pritzker (the Dem billionaire candidate) - https://www.thegreenpapers.com/G18/IL",Scientist34again,e96h24p,SandersForPresident
"Illinois 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://ova.elections.il.gov/PollingPlaceLookup.aspx): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e96ukm5,SandersForPresident
"Jeez....you need to be better informed earlier.

Rauner is pure dog shit evil. I can't believe you even needed to ask.",SociopathicScientist,e96yodo,SandersForPresident
">supports marijuana legalization.

Say no more.",unlmtdLoL,e96z0iq,SandersForPresident
Sooo...vote for Pritzer in your opinion? The wording at the end of your comment doesn't make sense to me. Help GOP's mandate by voting for Pritzer?,unlmtdLoL,e96h020,SandersForPresident
"Read. Read. Read.

I said I'm not interested in either candidate, but if I had to lean one way I'll go Democrat and vote Pritzer. ",unlmtdLoL,e96yy0s,SandersForPresident
IMO it would help the Democratic members elected to vote for Pritzer.  ,Chartis,e96i0u5,SandersForPresident
Thanks. Fair enough. I did some research and voted for him based on a couple of his policies. ,unlmtdLoL,e96yu8j,SandersForPresident
I was sad to learn provisional ballots are often not counted.,dolphin_bunker,e963xht,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962uad,SandersForPresident
"Michigan 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://webapps.sos.state.mi.us/MVIC/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e96dqio,SandersForPresident
"Why vote? Because if you don't then in 6 years you won't be able to, you will have to pay the ultimate price to give Americans back their ability to vote.",Zincoshine_2018,e95l1ce,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962ukh,SandersForPresident
"Bernie, what... You were the one saying people do not vote against things, but for things. ""Vote to stop Republicans"" is like the antithesis to why I joined this movement! ",robotzor,e94pm6j,SandersForPresident
"This post is about Bernie's tweet which reads ""Our plan: make health care a right to all. Stop giving tax breaks to billionaires. Protect and expand Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Transition to sustainable energy and leave behind a livable planet for our children.""

In addition to all the positive ideas he campaigns for, he has also added that we must fight back against sexism, racism, xenophobia, homophobia, and religious bigotry. Because the current leaders are blatant in their promotion of these ideas of hatred, I think it's okay to vote *against* hate in addition to all we're voting **for**.",RanLearns,e94qtjm,SandersForPresident
Ok how about voting to literally save your democracy?,Zincoshine_2018,e95l2yn,SandersForPresident
"ooh I think ill watch it this time, I caught some for 2016 general it was good",austin101123,e94si11,SandersForPresident
Same. I’ve seen a few of their primary ones and they’re always great.,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e952zzy,SandersForPresident
"This is why we should LIE to pollsters heading into the primaries!

Biden vs. Trump?  Trump.
Harris vs. Trump?  Trump.
Obama vs. Trump?  Trump.
Bernie vs. Trump?  Bernie!

For a lot of democrats the top issue will be who can win.  So make the polls going into the 2020 primary show that person in Bernie.",revolution2018,e96e55h,SandersForPresident
"Oh lord, get ready for this sign to get photoshopped with the most ridiculous stuff and shared all over Facebook. ",_badwithcomputer,e91qeiz,SandersForPresident
">It is not good enough to be a spectator. You have to be an activist. You have got to be involved. A good campaign needs a whole lot of people [knockin' on doors](https://ourrevolution.com/candidates/), [getting on the telephone](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank), [writing](https://text.forbernie.com/), doing [all kinds of important work.](https://votewithme.us/) 

>The moment is too late for people to say ""I'm not gonna get involved."" Not good enough. We are fighting for the future of the planet! So you can't sit back. You don't have that option.  

>If you're a yuman being you've gotta stand up, you gotta fight back. [Our Revolution is giving you that opportunity to get involved.](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/) I'm very proud of what Our Revolution is doing.  

>The political revolution is not just a campaign. It's gotta go on and on. Nina Turner has picked up that mantle. We're involving people all over this country.  

>I'm very excited. We're doing better than I even thought that we could. Congratulations to all the people involved in Our Revolution. Keep up the great work. We are winning.  

>We are winning this fight ideologically. And we're winning this fight in terms of bringing people into politics.  

>Thanks very much

-[Bernie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YEyxtaQtfKg)",Chartis,e91mtl6,SandersForPresident
"I was at this rally today.  I don't know whether it was amazing because the guy is a good public speaker, or just because he speaks goddamned **sense.**",slightlyoffki,e92f8hi,SandersForPresident
"I’m not entirely on board with this guys policies, but he seems like a really qualified and cool dude. If he became president I’d be interested to see what happens :)",xTrymanx,e92mwxz,SandersForPresident
"Correct, and we're fixing all that shit on Tuesday.",lfmann,e91ozvo,SandersForPresident
Was this at UNH? I volunteered for Rights & Democracy at the other rally today (Manchester)! We expected \~300 people and the turnout was a door-busting 900!,weathercrow,e92b4hv,SandersForPresident
Except it's been that way the whole time and look where we are.,RareHotdogEnthusiast,e929nha,SandersForPresident
"Except for when our democratic rights are highjacked and absconded with, as is seen in Georgia and other places where republicans do the best they can to keep people (specifically blacks) from voting. The current republican powers-that-be are doing everything they can to subvert our rights, our votes, and the will of the people. We see it every day now, from the hamstringing of net neutrality to making sure the poor and working class don't have health care. 

It takes more than our votes to make a difference. It takes more than getting out and canvassing. It takes more than throwing money at the problem to try and make a difference. What it takes is a boot to the throat of exploitive capitalism and their lobbyists who control our politicians.  ",Cool_Bastard,e928qn6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92lfke,SandersForPresident
We’re all gonna die,RN4Bernie,e92rk3s,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92k0af,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92jj70,SandersForPresident
"i hope sanders runs and wins after trump, for his first act i want to see the constitution amended to remove the ""born in the usa"" requirement for president. after sanders arnold runs and wins, putin cowers in fear and we take over the arctic as a US territory. 20 years go by and we have melted the ice and now have an ocean under our direct control. we build an under water city to survive the impending extinction due to our land being under water.

&#x200B;

centuries later people find atlantis was built by america.",NCC74656,e92lyg6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92kbjx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92ldsy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92bq59,SandersForPresident
Make a depoait at the facebank,kirkl3s,e92b634,SandersForPresident
Has Bernie lost some weight?,HappyGimp,e92gopa,SandersForPresident
"To you all, whatever happens next is up. But to me, what's next is going down. ",greenmark69,e93hspe,SandersForPresident
"I had the same thought, when I saw the photo I was like “oh this is going to get memed”",Buddy28911,e91simo,SandersForPresident
"I love that you put ""yuman"" because of his accent. ",Salvadore1,e91ps7b,SandersForPresident
"Bernie seems like the sanest politician alive today, and certainly the one I trust the most.  It is a strange feeling, to actually believe a politician when s/he speaks.  

I’m Canadian, so I can’t vote unfortunately.  But I’ll spread the word.  The US is too important to get highkacked by lies and greed for another 4 years.",MystifiedByLife,e920c7c,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92jp8u,SandersForPresident
"Tuesday is the start of the fix. Still lots more to do. The very very very best case scenario for getting Medicare For All is big Democratic wins on Tuesday, Bernie and more progressives in 2020, even more progressives in 2022, and Medicare For All legislation passed in 2023.

Without the wins we need on Tuesday and beyond, it could be 10 or more years before we get healthcare as a right for all Americans.",RanLearns,e91wf3b,SandersForPresident
"It’s been said that “if voting made a difference, they’d make it illegal.”

Given all the voter suppression going on lately, maybe it does make a difference afterall. ",preventDefault,e92oh44,SandersForPresident
"[So live purposefully.](https://themidnightstation.files.wordpress.com/2016/06/img_0215.png)

>I urge you all to never underestimate the value of your voice, the power of your vote, and the potential that comes from people organizing around issues they care deeply about. What seems impossible can be made possible when millions of people stand united.

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1058526149461053440)",Chartis,e92rup7,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e92m1l7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e92ln0t,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e94eevh,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e92m2qc,SandersForPresident
"This is being remove for fear mongering. The rules define fear mongering as:

> Any post or public statement which spreads fear, intimidation, or unease but either has no direct or clear benefit to the greater goals of the sub or is intended to coerce subscribers into behaving or engaging in any way that they would not have done otherwise.

Please read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting something similar.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e94ed7m,SandersForPresident
Plot twist: it’s memed already,theodorAdorno,e920wk3,SandersForPresident
For more inspiration and expressions along those lines [we keep a collection](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/wiki/art) some may want to explore. (After [rallying at least one vote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Mgp4AvZPHY&feature=youtu.be&t=30) via the activism links in the sidebar-->) ,Chartis,e91tgbt,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e92m55n,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, how's that popular vote, winner-take-all,  electoral college, superdelegates, rail roading DNC candidate of 2016 working out for ya? 

To think that voting is the only  big ticket in town is to ignore the other forces that weaken our vote. We have to work twice as hard to make our vote count and overcome corruption. But be my guest, keep thinking and dreaming you're al you can be with your magic vote. Keep ignoring that the system is fucking broken. ",Cool_Bastard,e92slfn,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e92m154,SandersForPresident
I don't even need to have seen the deleted comment to know it likely targeted Bernie's book endorsement (heaven forbid he push it in one of his answers).  I hope people are smart enough not to cut their noses off to spite the face.,untildeath,e92u86m,SandersForPresident
"And your solution is to what... not vote?

I think most of us in this sub are painfully aware of the shortcomings of our electoral system. Regardless, on Tuesday we have work to do. ",preventDefault,e92svac,SandersForPresident
"The man wrote a book he's proud of. And given that he's been campaigning 14 hours a day for months on end for us, I'll cut him some slack. Hell, millions gave him $27 bucks and expected only his efforts in return (which was worth every penny and even more desperately needed today). Being a writer is a hell of a lot of work, especially considering [where he works.](https://i.imgur.com/b5TnWAR.jpg) And his money is put to good use, Bernie personally financed [The Sanders Institute's](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/mission-statement) startup.

>A vital democracy requires an informed electorate, civil discourse and bold ideas. The mission of the Sanders Institute is to revitalize democracy by actively engaging individuals, organizations and the media in the pursuit of progressive solutions to economic, environmental, racial and social justice issues.

Kudos to Bernie for being so industrious in addition to his solid work as a Senator. He's revitalizing American democracy by leading a political revolution and doin' a damn fine job. I'm grateful for his efforts and am glad for his thoughts & his books. In addition to what he shared during the time he spent in the AMA (which was more then he spent that day on TYT & MSNBC combined) providing his thoughts for free, I'm really interested in where we go from here. If a poorly received Reddit reply is what being latched onto by his opponents (which pales in comparison to how well received his other remarks were several times over) then he's in good shape & an ascending champion.  

In addition to picking up a copy, consider going to your local library's contact page to ask they order in copies for those that can't afford them:  

>* [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) ISBN 9781250163264 
>* [Our Revolution](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250132925) ISBN 9781250132925
>* [Bernie Sanders Guide to Political Revolution](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250138903) ISBN 9781568585536
>* [An Outsider in the White House](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781859848715) ISBN 9781859848715  
>* [The Speech: On Corporate Greed and the Decline of Our Middle Class](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781568585536) ISBN 9781568585536
>* [Bernie Speaks - Speeches by Bernie Sanders](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781979667630) ISBN 9781979667630
>* [How Bernie Won](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250144751) ISBN 9781250144751",Chartis,e92ug82,SandersForPresident
">The future of this country is in your hands. If you generation stands up and fights for what you believe:  

>* Economic Justice  
>* Social Justice
>* Racial Justice
>* Environmental Justice

>we'll transform this country in a very fundamental way. We can create a nation that:  

>* has leadership which leads the world in transforming our energy system and taking on the fossil fuel industry  
>* makes public colleges and universities tuition free  
>* has health care for all  
>* makes billionaires pay their fair share of taxes  
>* deals with criminal justice reform
>* enacts immigration reform   

>We can do all of those things...  

>Come out and vote. Bring your friends. Sit down and confront your friends. When you friends tell you ""Aw, politics is all bullshit. It doesn't matter."" explain to them that if they want:   

>* to get a decent job 
>* to not have enormous debt  
>* their kids to breathe clean air 
>* to drink clean water  
>* end sexism & racism in this county  

>this election is not bullshit, and politics is not bullshit. So this is it. This is it. The future of the country depends upon you & millions of other young people. So stand up, fight back, & let's create the nation that we know we can become.    

>Thank you all very much.  

-Bernie, [Nov 4^th '18](https://youtu.be/VMnUY3qHnLA?t=8261)
",Chartis,e92ubdv,SandersForPresident
"Funny how you resort to twisting my words around into a strawman.

No, my solution is not not voting.

I'm refuting the naive concept that voting solves all problems, that voting is the end all to everything, that all it takes is voting, that ""What happens next is all up to us,"" because it's not all fucking up to us. If you're black, and in the South, there's a good fucking chance that white republicans are fucking you over, more so than you would be if you were black anywhere else in the US. 

As I already mentioned:

* We vote, but the popular vote isn't how we pick a president.
* We vote, but states have winner-take-all, which means your vote is invalidated no matter if you're republican or democrat.
* We vote, but our votes are invalidated and replaced with representative votes in the electoral college.
* We vote, and states like Vermont where the popular vote went for Bernie but all the superdelagate votes went for fucking HRC.

See my point?? It's that it takes more than ""just voting"" to make a difference. I don't know what it takes, maybe it takes more money, or special interest, or getting more people to vote or god fucking forbid it takes violence to make change; I don't know. But what I do know is that it takes more than one fucking vote to make a difference. It takes more than an entire state voting one way to make a difference. It takes more...when you're up against lying/cheating republicans along with your own party who fucked you over in 2016 to push their own agenda.",Cool_Bastard,e92upzd,SandersForPresident
"You’re not wrong but sometimes talking like that causes people to stay home on Election Day, because why make the effort if it doesn’t work anyway?

So I agree with you... but I personally refrain from downplaying the importance of voting to people on the fence because I don’t want to discourage anybody.

Changes do need to be made, but between now and Tuesday there’s a 0% chance of that happening so we just need to play the hand we’re dealt for now.",preventDefault,e92uzcz,SandersForPresident
">sometimes talking like that causes people to stay home on Election Day, because why make the effort if it doesn’t work anyway?

I can't argue with that. The only change is to emphasize what I said, which was, "" **It's that it takes more than ""just voting"" to make a difference.**"" I guess I should say that voting is the very least that we can do, along with checking with our friends to make sure they are voting. I go to random blacks at work (yes I know it's weird, but it's doubly important for them) and ask if they vote. Hispanics as well (since I am half Mexican). Many. Still. Aren't/Haven't. Voted. I urge them to vote.  

>So I agree with you.

And I guess I agree with you too, that we all need to vote. 

>between now and Tuesday there’s a 0% chance of that happening so we just need to play the hand we’re dealt for now.

You are right. I just....I just hate what's fucking going on. I'm seething with it. Fuming with endless, impotent, rage at the right & Trump supporters and what the DNC has done. We're fractured...and if we don't pull together this week, and in 2020...I got nothing. 

&#x200B;",Cool_Bastard,e92vgni,SandersForPresident
"https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/10/7/17947768/voter-registration-deadline-verify-2018-midterms  

https://twitter.com/netw3rk/status/1059513685071155200  ",Chartis,e945bxs,SandersForPresident
"Wisconsin 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://elections.wi.gov/voters/absentee): September 24-November 4 

[General Election Voter Registration Deadline](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/registertovote): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/FindMyPollingPlace): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e95q846,SandersForPresident
i donated 3 time and phone banked and they smeared him over nothing... his brother was paid off. ,4now5now6now,e94ltjh,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962v6o,SandersForPresident
"oh I wish Ben Jealous... he is the most brilliant. Phonebanked for him in the primary. They are lying about the polls. hogan might have ten points but not double digits .... Ben would slash the sales tax from 6 to 5.75... That's what they care about.... 21 pages just on criminal justice reform, medicare for all, ban fracking in Maryland, raising teachers pay. Ben is worth phonebanking for because they pick up the phone in Maryland... larry hogan will turn very right wing after he wins... he will no longer be moderate",4now5now6now,e94o215,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e94n3x4,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962viu,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962vcb,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e95r5lf,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e951ws2,SandersForPresident
If the Dem isn't progressive enough should I vote for the Green Party?,Orchid777,e93u0yw,SandersForPresident
"Depends on the candidates, the race, your interests, & likely impacts.",Chartis,e93uau3,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e951x80,SandersForPresident
">...Koch brothers have developed detailed personality profiles on 89 percent of the U.S. population; and are using those profiles to launch an unprecedented private propaganda offensive to **advance Republican candidates in the 2018 midterms.**

>The documents also show that the Kochs...target voters with **tailored messaging on select issues, and partner with cable and satellite TV providers to play those tailored messages during “regular” television broadcasts**.

****

>In modern elections, **incorporating AI into voter file maintenance has become a prerequisite to producing reliable data.** The Kochs’ political data firm, **i360 states that it has “been practicing AI for years. Our team of data scientists uses components of Machine learning, Deep Learning and Predictive Analytics, every day as they build and refine our predictive models.**”

>Thanks to that investment (and the Supreme Court’s campaign finance rulings that opened the floodgates for super PACs), the **Koch network is better positioned than either the Democratic Party or the GOP to reach voters with their individually tailored communications.**

>The Kochs and i360

>The **Kochs formally entered the data space nine years ago, developing the “Themis Trust” program for the 2010 midterms** — an uncommonly impactful election cycle where **Republican operatives executed their REDMAP program and algorithmically gerrymandered congressional maps across the country in their favor.**

>In 2011, the **Kochs folded Themis into a data competitor it acquired, i360 LLC, which was founded by Michael Palmer, the former chief technology officer of Sen. John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign**. Palmer still leads the organization.

>...the **Kochs’ long-term funding commitments to i360 allowed the organization to think bigger than their political competitors.**

>“Right now, we’re talking about and building things that you won’t see in 2016, because it’s not going to be ready until 2018,” Michael Palmer said in the wake of the 2014 midterm cycle.

>...**i360 is the “best in the business” at providing Republicans with voter data.**

>...the National Rifle Association, use the platform to identify and influence voters, as do Republican party committees, and U.S. House and Senate campaigns.

****

>i360 Client List

>(A full list of i360’s clients is available [**here**](https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?two_year_transaction_period=2018&data_type=processed&recipient_name=i360&min_date=01%2F01%2F2017&max_date=10%2F14%2F2018)...

>Conservatives agree that the Kochs are subsidizing i360. The losses they sustain by undercharging clients, however, are a pittance compared to the down-stream public policy returns and political power the Kochs receive from operating what amounts to a shadow political party in the United States — **one that vigilantly guards the fossil fuel subsidies, deregulatory schemes, and regressive tax structures that enable Koch Industries to bring in $115 billion annually in private revenue.**

****

>Inside the i360 Voter File

>i360’s voter file identifies “**more than 199 million active voters and 290 million U.S. consumers,” and provides its users with up to 1,800 unique data points on each identified individual.**

>As a result,** i360 and the Kochs know your vitals, ethnicity, religion, occupation, hobbies, shopping habits, political leanings, financial assets, marital status and much more.**

...

>i360 has the following attribute tags, among hundreds of others, **ranked 1-10, or subdivided otherwise in their voter file.**

****

>i360 Attribute Tags

>Here’s an example of an i360 attribute tag and code name, using a 1-10 value scale:

>i360 attribute tag and code name, using a 1-10 value scale.

>But i360 attribute codes are not limited to that 1-10 scale. Their knowledge of your financial standing is granular, from **how much equity you have in your home to your net wealth and expendable income.**

>**i360 knows what your financial standing is.**

>They **know where you live, what your mortgage status is and even how many bathrooms are in your house**.

>i360 has also created a set of 70 “clustercodes” to humanize its data for campaign operatives. These categories range from **“Faded Blue Collars” to “Meandering Millennials,” and have flamboyant descriptions that correspond with their attribute headings.**

****

>Here are some examples:

>i360 Clustercodes

>Koch Persuasion Models

>Additionally, i360 has developed a series of **persuasion models for its voter file. These models are often regionally sensitive — since voters have regional concerns — and are being used in federal elections and down-ballot races** to assist Republicans across the country.

>In 2016,** i360 created a set of regional models while working with Sen. Rob Portman’s 2016 re-election campaign in Ohio.** Portman started out the race polling nine points behind his Democratic opponent, Gov. Ted Strickland, but ultimately won with 58 percent of the vote.

>The company **developed a model that could predict whether a voter supported Portman or Strickland with 89 percent accuracy,** and others that predicted voter policy preferences. Well aware of the 2016 landscape, **i360 also made a Trump/Clinton model, an Anti-Hillary model, and a Ticket Splitter model.**

>Much of i360’s success in the race, however, **was linked to understanding (after conducting extensive polling) that a “key local issue facing Ohio was the opioid epidemic.” In response, the company created a “heroin model” and a “heroin treatment model” that were particularly effective at convincing voters to support Portman.**

>i360 Heroin Model

>...**Portman’s “position” on the crisis depended on the voter, emphasizing health care solution communications for some, and criminal justice solution communications for others.**

****

>...manipulation of the opioid crisis for political gain has a perverse irony given the Kochs’ long-running work to **provide corporate interests, including health care and pharmaceutical interests, with undue political power and influence over public policy decisions.** The Kochs have gifted over a **million dollars to ALEC, for example, an organization that counts Purdue Pharma — the unconscionable manufacturer of OxyContin — as a member.**

>The company also stated **it joined Portman’s campaign 21 months before the election, and that, “Together, i360 and the campaign strategized a plan to execute one of the most custom-targeted, integrated campaigns to date with a focus on getting the right message to the right voter wherever that might be.**”

>...**during the 2016 election, i360 also ran $11.7 million worth of “independent” expenditures for the National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund, Freedom Partners Action Fund, and Americans for Prosperity in Portman’s race.**

>These outside spenders, two of which are Koch-funded groups, **and Portman’s campaign all used i360 to coordinate their digital marketing, phone banks and television ad buys, in the same market, in the same election.**

>Additionally, **i360 supplied Portman’s campaign with other issue-based models on gun control, gay marriage and abortion that the company continues to supply to its clients in 2018.**
",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e93wmnw,SandersForPresident
"This is voter suppression at work. Has anyone ever seen such long lines in a largely white neighborhood?

https://www.riggedthefilm.com/",horstenporst,e93tae3,SandersForPresident
"I wouldn't quite go so far as to call a printer malfunction voter suppression, but you're damn right when you say that it's unlikely you'd see a similar problem in a white neighborhood ",NickolaosDSA,e946ohv,SandersForPresident
"I wouldn't call it voter suppression if it would be an isolated incident. But we see long lines and broken election equipment in mostly black neighborhoods over and over again. In 2016 for example 87 machines broke down in Detroit, responsible for counting tens of thousands of ballots.
https://truthout.org/articles/the-republican-sabotage-of-the-vote-recounts-in-michigan-and-wisconsin/",horstenporst,e94b8i7,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e95r6p0,SandersForPresident
"https://whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com/archive and remember to channel the outrage via constructive activism, healthy engagement, and strengthening your voice. Connect, Organize, Mobilize, Educate: C.O.M.E together, stand up, fight back.",Chartis,e94n9b0,SandersForPresident
"SS- Duty is not just for soldiers. Duty is an obligation for all citizens; and the duty that a Constitutional Democratic Republic demands from its citizens is the vote. An absent vote is an absent voice from government; this makes government less legitimate while making those that do vote that much more powerful.

Tomorrow is Election Day for every House Representative, a third of Senators and innumerable local seats. Do your duty.",Siessfires,e94si3v,SandersForPresident
">Progressives have dominated the ideas debate. 

>* Medicare for All
>* tuition-free college
>* a 15-dollar-an-hour minimum wage
>* criminal justice and immigration reform 

>have gained ever-greater traction within the party. More and more Democratic candidates found it necessary to forgo taking corporate PAC money, even as small-donor contributions soared. Progressives will win victories up and down the ballot on Tuesday. The signature upsets of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley over Democratic incumbents put the rest of the party on notice...   

>Sanders has broken new ground by laying out elements of an alternative foreign policy position...   

>The economy still doesn’t work for working people. Inequality grows worse; political corruption deepens; endless wars continue without victory, real security threats like catastrophic climate change are ignored...   

>A restoration candidate gives Trump a stronger hand, allowing him to cast himself once more as the populist agent of change against an entrenched and failed establishment. And even if successful in ridding us of Trump, the result would be a Democratic administration that will once more fail working people, a failure that will surely feed an even uglier political reaction...  

>Voters are looking for answers. They are just beginning to be introduced to bold ideas like Medicare for All and tuition-free college. That agenda needs to be expanded—and defended. In Congress, anything that passes from a Democratic-controlled House will die in the Republican Senate, so progressives should use the opportunity to hold hearings that detail bold reforms, and pass “message bills” that frame the alternative. Similarly, at the state and local level, progressives should use advances to drive bold reforms on everything from big money in politics and holding corporations accountable, to criminal justice reform. One focus should be on the jobs and growth that can be generated by public investment in a [Green New Deal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be&t=176), modernizing America while rebuilding it. Progressives should be pushing at every level to empower workers—and to curb a perverted capitalism that rewards CEOs for plundering their own companies.

>This year’s elections gave lie to those fanning fears that progressives would tear the party apart by challenging favored establishment choices. Fierce arguments over policies and primary challenges did not hinder coming together in unity against Trump and his Republican enablers. Movements—from #MeToo to Black Lives Matter to the Dreamers to the stunning teacher strikes in red states—helped move opinion, not alienate it. Bold ideas like Medicare for All grew more popular, not less, even under scabrous Republican attacks. Progressives have made great advances over the last two years. Now is the time to push harder, to challenge those standing in the way, and to build not a restoration, but the political revolution that has just begin.  ",Chartis,e94cw10,SandersForPresident
"I can't watch him.... or wait it's against ted oh okay ... oh that was perfect

YAY Kyle",4now5now6now,e94lywa,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962wvu,SandersForPresident
"Vermont 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://mvp.sec.state.vt.us/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e962wxx,SandersForPresident
"Check your voter registration

Vote.gov",WhiskeyInferno,e93rzff,SandersForPresident
"Yeah..
I voted already.  I just worry about mine being taken out later because it's not what the counter wanted. Warehouses and storage units show that's been happening.
I was wondering how to check after. ",akiitasrlan,e93t2v2,SandersForPresident
"I'm the worst speller.... but isn't it you are not.... or you're not?

either way everyone know what you mean",4now5now6now,e94lpex,SandersForPresident
*eyeroll*,akiitasrlan,e94oxmn,SandersForPresident
"lol.... i just got corrected over could have and could of grammar wise

We must have perfect grammar as the world burns",4now5now6now,e94uaps,SandersForPresident
"Be bold, respectful, and don't waste time. Own your bias, lean into it. This is the sort of important you take head on IMO.  If you need an in consider asking them what they think about [this video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ) Obviously situational awareness is important but learn by doing.

>Sit down and confront your friends. When you friends tell you ""Aw, politics is all bullshit. It doesn't matter."" explain to them that if they want:   

>* to get a decent job 
>* to not have enormous debt  
>* their kids to breathe clean air 
>* to drink clean water  
>* end sexism & racism in this county  

>this election is not bullshit, and politics is not bullshit. So this is it. This is it. The future of the country depends upon you & millions of other young people. So stand up, fight back, & let's create the nation that we know we can become.    

>Thank you all very much.  

-Bernie, [Nov 4^th '18](https://youtu.be/VMnUY3qHnLA?t=8261)
",Chartis,e94d3wd,SandersForPresident
Tell them that it's likely house will pass medicare for all(or atleast vote on it) if dems take the house. That should mobilize them,sasiralla,e94dy0j,SandersForPresident
"casual... well their lives are affected whether they vote or not.... if you don't vote they can purge your name for in activity,

people died so you could vote

Find something meaningful on the ballot or how it could benefit them in ... For example: if we get enough wins ... we can start getting rid of student loan debt, keep the planet alive ten more years....  Do they drink beer? They are many article saying that beer is about to be a casualty of climate change. What is important to them?",4now5now6now,e94mquu,SandersForPresident
"Bring some food and drinks,  tell them they are good people and you'd feel better living in a country that is shaped by them.  If they don't  think they can make a difference  at least you get to spend some time together and see your fellow citizens  care.  Tell them you need backup. ",BeTheBern,e94wgxk,SandersForPresident
I am so humbled by such a response. Thank you so much. I appreciate it more than you know. ,JesseBrown447,e95khtr,SandersForPresident
"Thank you for your offering your advice, I appreciate it.",JesseBrown447,e95kob5,SandersForPresident
"All excellent points, thank you.",JesseBrown447,e95kpeb,SandersForPresident
Would they support you by driving you somewhere  or doing you a favour?  This is the same thing. ,BeTheBern,e94wku2,SandersForPresident
"I am emboldened by you.  

When the people build enough power, and weakened by regular ranching practices like 'penning' & 'milking', soon our production capacity is eyed by feral fear and we're defenseless. As the cruel & cowardly minority gorges they become more powerful. Today is our chance to turn around, square off, and strike hard. We must empower and connect every day, but today is all or nothing. This is a solid line in the dark. Step forth, stand tall, be the authority.  

What heartens me is envisioning a hundred million Americans lining up at community centers all around the nation as our sun passes overhead. Gathering with neighbors to elect leaders, considering & deciding the future, putting in a effort to rule. That's big medicine, deep magic. That is what makes America great.  

I see beautiful people. That the world does this thing... that is where my hope is.  

100 years ago women couldn't (in addition to so much other stuff) vote. Children worked in mines. It still happens around the world, and in America: human beings are imagined to the point of an artificial reality to be lesser. But for as far back in history that we've been, the other thing, the good thing, has been with us too. And it's growing.  

It grows with you.   

Thank you for being who is needed.  ",Chartis,e962jvi,SandersForPresident
Fantastic! I appreciate your advice! ,JesseBrown447,e95ksf4,SandersForPresident
"No problem sister/brother, will you tell us how it went? Would love to know if you got results.  Obviously  you already  get major points  for trying,  thank you for that! ",BeTheBern,e96uboh,SandersForPresident
I donated and phone banked for a year and 1/2 ( before that the primaries for Bernie) ...and this is how I feel...,4now5now6now,e94la77,SandersForPresident
[Youtube mirror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cc7EU8uSshE)  ,Chartis,e945y1y,SandersForPresident
"My fear is that if Dems win, the moderate dems will come in, thank everyone and say ""we got it now"" and business as usual. I don't want Pelosi or Chunk running the show anymore. They had their chance, did what they could but ultimately failed because we got Trump. These massive enthusiasm from voters are grassroot and want true change. Its like when Obama brought them in during 2008 and then left them at the door. People need to be involved and excited year round. That's one thing republicans do right is that they make sure their voter are ready on the dime. We need a new climate and leadership because the old one is demonized too much and frankly can't lead new voters into political process. ",vman_isyourhero,e952na7,SandersForPresident
"Bernie is a damn great leader, strikes justified fear in established oligarchy's hearts, & thankfully does not give up. He is an intrepid force of nature.

>The younger generation today is the most progressive generation in the history of this country. These are the folks that are [leading the fight](https://www.schoolstrike4climate.com/)... a wonderful group of people.  

-Bernie, [Nov 5^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYQDR5VYr6U)

---  

>Progressives have dominated the ideas debate. 

>* Medicare for All
>* tuition-free college
>* a 15-dollar-an-hour minimum wage
>* criminal justice and immigration reform 

>have gained ever-greater traction within the party. More and more Democratic candidates found it necessary to forgo taking corporate PAC money, even as small-donor contributions soared. Progressives will win victories up and down the ballot on Tuesday. The signature upsets of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley over Democratic incumbents put the rest of the party on notice...   

>Sanders has broken new ground by laying out elements of an alternative foreign policy position...   

>The economy still doesn’t work for working people. Inequality grows worse; political corruption deepens; endless wars continue without victory, real security threats like catastrophic climate change are ignored...   

>A restoration candidate gives Trump a stronger hand, allowing him to cast himself once more as the populist agent of change against an entrenched and failed establishment. And even if successful in ridding us of Trump, the result would be a Democratic administration that will once more fail working people, a failure that will surely feed an even uglier political reaction...  

>Voters are looking for answers. They are just beginning to be introduced to bold ideas like Medicare for All and tuition-free college. That agenda needs to be expanded—and defended. In Congress, anything that passes from a Democratic-controlled House will die in the Republican Senate, so progressives should use the opportunity to hold hearings that detail bold reforms, and pass “message bills” that frame the alternative. Similarly, at the state and local level, progressives should use advances to drive bold reforms on everything from big money in politics and holding corporations accountable, to criminal justice reform. One focus should be on the jobs and growth that can be generated by public investment in a [Green New Deal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be&t=176), modernizing America while rebuilding it. Progressives should be pushing at every level to empower workers—and to curb a perverted capitalism that rewards CEOs for plundering their own companies.

>This year’s elections gave lie to those fanning fears that progressives would tear the party apart by challenging favored establishment choices. Fierce arguments over policies and primary challenges did not hinder coming together in unity against Trump and his Republican enablers. Movements—from #MeToo to Black Lives Matter to the Dreamers to the stunning teacher strikes in red states—helped move opinion, not alienate it. Bold ideas like Medicare for All grew more popular, not less, even under scabrous Republican attacks. Progressives have made great advances over the last two years. Now is the time to push harder, to challenge those standing in the way, and to build not a restoration, but the political revolution that has just begin.  

-[After the midterms, Democrats must embrace the insurgencies that have reenergized the people and the party.](https://www.thenation.com/article/democrats-2020-frontrunners-resistance-progressives)  

",Chartis,e953cxu,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/polling-place/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e94bktd,SandersForPresident
"Seeking asylum is legal. What the Trump administration facilitated isn't:  

>[illegal practices occurring at ports of entry across the border. Officials at Customs and Border Protection have been on the offensive in delaying and preventing the processing of families seeking to petition for asylum. Ranging from leaving families out in the sun and heat for days as they wait to enter the U.S. to misinforming migrants on their rights to come onto US land and request asylum](https://www.wola.org/analysis/come-back-later-challenges-asylum-seekers-waiting-ports-entry)",Chartis,e940qe3,SandersForPresident
https://www.reddit.com/r/OurRevolutions/comments/9tvdly/our_revolution_progressive_midterm_voter_guide/,seamslegit,e94u429,SandersForPresident
"Cheat sheet? But every state and even city or county is different

As far as Congress there are better and worse Democrats but every Democrat is better than any Republican. ",axlrosetookmybike,e94opli,SandersForPresident
"We'll be doing a live thread starting in the afternoon and keep it going until about the witching hour. TYT is also going to have such coverage as will the major papers.  

Bernie is also doing a brief show at some point: https://www.burlingtonfreepress.com/story/news/2018/11/05/christine-hallquist-bernie-sanders-peter-welch-democrats-vermont-governor-election-results/1843999002/",Chartis,e94pvbb,SandersForPresident
"And he ended with:

""What I'm asking you, in fact begging you is not only to vote on Tuesday but to bring your friends. Sit down and confront your friends. When your friends tell you 'politics is all bullshit, it doesn’t matter' explain it to them. If they want to get a decent wage, if they don’t want to be burdened with debt, if they want their kids to breathe clean air and drink clean water, and if they want to fight racism, and sexism, this election is not bullshit. Politics is not bullshit.""

“The future of this country depends on you and millions of other young people. Stand up, fight back, and let’s build the nation that we know we can become.”

""Thank you all very much!""",RanLearns,e93cdwn,SandersForPresident
This is pure! Good content,ijustwannanap,e93abyj,SandersForPresident
"[This](https://i.imgur.com/3cF6DoE.jpg) is my favorite shot, possibly meme-worthy",weathercrow,e92azzh,SandersForPresident
Father Bernie,ihavesensitiveknees,e92zf9r,SandersForPresident
"https://i.imgur.com/uQGC4zf.jpg  

Ref: https://youtu.be/VMnUY3qHnLA?t=7121",Chartis,e92r0d3,SandersForPresident
Love it!,weathercrow,e92xrea,SandersForPresident
"* Get hooked up with a [community of positive influence](https://ourrevolution.com/groups/)
* Ensure you have a [healthy media intake](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9r9fmv/bernie_has_been_brought_out_some_massive_crowds/e8g91c4/)  
* And for the love of all that is worthwhile please reach out via activism and [rally at least 1 vote](https://youtu.be/3Mgp4AvZPHY?t=30). Links in the sidebar --> ",Chartis,e90nqgo,SandersForPresident
"Article: [Tallahassee Yoga Shooter Was A Far-Right Misogynist Who Railed Against Women And Minorities Online](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/davidmack/tallahassee-yoga-shooter-incel-far-right-misogyny-video)  

>The man who killed two women at a Florida yoga studio on Friday night had posted a series of misogynistic videos & songs online, and appeared to identify as an “involuntary celibate.” This is the second deadly attack by an “involuntary celibate” in 2018.",Chartis,e906guo,SandersForPresident
"I appreciate the way she worded that.

When you turn your back on a group, you leave it ripe for influence by unsavory forces.

But the idea of providing a positive alternative is so alien and abhorrent to those who have decided some people aren't worth caring about. ",romulusnr,e90tqcx,SandersForPresident
"The Economist had an interesting article on this: https://www.economist.com/special-report/2016/01/23/of-men-and-mayhem

The basic hypothesis is that any society that has a large surplus of young, single, desperate and sexually frustrated men will be unstable and experience acts of violence.",miltondepeyracpeyran,e90x0oj,SandersForPresident
"PSA

When the Democrats take control of Congress, even if it's only one house, they will also control OVERSIGHT committees and the INVESTIGATIVE committees, and they will have subpoena power to find out exactly what Trump, the unindicted CO-CONSPIRATOR in a federal crime, and Republicans have been up to,

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

When the Democrats take control of Congress they will be able to investigate Kavanaugha.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

If you want to see what is in Mueller's report, the Republicans aren't going to tell you, but the Democrats, even with only one house, will be able to answer all of your questions.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

this is a referendum on Trump, and his policies, and if we beat them badly enough, the remaining Republicans will turn against Trump, and we could impeach him.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

And if all we do is take control of one house of Congress, we can make Trump's last two years in office really, really, really sh*ty.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

[ Statistically speaking, and the Republicans know this, in a high turnout election the Democrats win.  Make sure you are registered because the Republicans have been deregistering people all over the place, and ](https://www.vote.org/am-i-registered-to-vote/)

##VOTE##

**VOTE, if for no other reason than because nobody in America should ever be considered too poor to live.**

Cut & Paste and Pass it on.",oldest_boomer_1946,e9168wm,SandersForPresident
 Because ISIS is browner.,EdwardPenishands965,e90dkbg,SandersForPresident
4chan? ,timodmo,e90lcil,SandersForPresident
ISIS is the far-right,jhib456,e90of2v,SandersForPresident
This describes your regular reddit redcap way too accurately. ,OneLastRodeo,e90dgt6,SandersForPresident
"Why is it that the left has to keep trying to understand the right, whereas the right just acts all flippant and ignores the left, and we keep on moving along against each other.

I’m only saying this because the old guard GOP, is now replaced with an ideology of: This is the way it must be, there is no compromise...

I know the left has been similar, but not as absolute, at least going back 40 some odd years or so.

It’s really sad, as I had thought we were an enlightened people of a great nation.

Not so much lately...",fook_me_this_sucks,e9159cx,SandersForPresident
">In too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.    

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1984322821622712)

---  

>The American people are saying, 'Enough is enough'...  

>* 97% of the American people support universal background checks...  
>* 83% of the American people indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases...  
>* 67% of the people polled by [Quinnipiac]( https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=2521) support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons...  
>* A [CNN poll]( https://ssrs.com/seven-in-10-favor-tighter-gun-laws/)... 70% of people want stricter gun laws...  
>* 87% support laws to prevent convicted felons and the mentally ill from owning guns...   
>* 71% support banning anyone under 21 from buying a gun...  
>* 63% support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines...  
>* 57% support an assault weapons ban...  
>* 56% say that stricter guns laws would reduce gun related deaths...  

>The American people are demanding that we have the courage to [stand up to the NRA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY) and finally take some action that will move us in the right direction...   

>* Universal background checks...  
>* Ending the so called 'Gunshow Loophole'...  
>* Addressing the so called 'Strawmen' purchases...  
>* Ban assault weapons...  
>* Any American that is suffering today from a mental health crisis should be able to get the mental health care they need now, not two months from now...   
>* If somebody is a stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is under a restraining order... that person should not be owning a gun...  

>In a bi-partisan way we can come together, do what the American people want us to do: Pass common sense gun safety legislation that is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLG2Xq6B-f4)  ",Chartis,e90a4lh,SandersForPresident
"How about nobody identifies as a group, but simply participate in the group.  It’s not like you see athletes throwing punches at the end of the game because their team lost.",Tuna_outta_the_can,e91ddq0,SandersForPresident
But there are good people on both sides! ,terminal8,e90uc73,SandersForPresident
"Regardless of your political leanings, this is an absolutely true statement.",bringparka,e918za3,SandersForPresident
"Obviously cos the Scalise shooting tells us that both sides are equally bad. 


Edit- I’m adding an /s, I find the equivalency ridiculous myself, I was being sarcastic with my response since this seems to be the main right/republican talking point when pointing out the instability in their base. ",Red1220,e90pj51,SandersForPresident
"People need to stand up against the far-right and get rid of Trump and his administration. However her statement is quite useless. ISIS is said to have conducted 143 terror attacks that killed more than 2,000 people. This doesn't include the war, propaganda, hostage taking and beheadings. Haven't seen even remotely similar numbers on the far-right. ",vagabond9,e90zvkq,SandersForPresident
Did she just compare 4chan and reddit to ISIS?,plybianz,e90x1vh,SandersForPresident
"Meanwhile the most radical leftists are eating out of dumpsters, handing out socks too the homeless, opposing child separation, and picketing with striking workers . But yeah something something both sides ",Rolling_offset,e912rim,SandersForPresident
It's called Freedom of Speech and it seems to be threatening those who want to control the internet for some reason.,Orangutan,e90mvis,SandersForPresident
"Why dont you name these so called ""thought leaders"" and not be so vague?",toucansalmon,e9168h0,SandersForPresident
"God dammit, if good people on the left start talking about censoring and regulating the hitherto free and open internet in the same way that the right has been doing on religious / family values grounds since its inception, I honestly don't know who I'm supposed to support politically anymore.",hatrickpatrick,e92lmpu,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e9445vb,SandersForPresident
Omg guess we have to delete the internets,CallMeBigPapaya,e90u31g,SandersForPresident
our president refuses to say it by name: RADICAL WHITE NATIONALIST TERROR. ,m0ops,e90x3kg,SandersForPresident
"Because ISIS and other terrorist organizations like them want to kill everyone in America/west. I'm more right leaning, but this shit is ridiculous not everyRepublican wants Democrats to die my dude. Fuck those guys who want to insight harm on others. That includes the the nazi's in the country and ANTIFA both are horrible. ",mavericknaked28,e9119st,SandersForPresident
"Civilization, in fact, grows more and more maudlin and hysterical; especially under democracy it tends to degenerate into a mere combat of crazes; the whole aim of practical politics is to keep the populace alarmed (and hence clamorous to be led to safety) by menacing it with an endless series of hobgoblins, most of them imaginary.",5000sheets,e912l4q,SandersForPresident
Too smart.  Please dumb down for mass distribution.  ,likechoklit4choklit,e917jcg,SandersForPresident
I think a lot of reddit users that don’t even identify as “right” are vulnerable to this. Anytime someone posts a feminist comment it gets brigaded with downvotes.,TheAdorableThespian,e917s7v,SandersForPresident
Probably because ISIS is simply worse,kingchilifrito,e91c664,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e91070x,SandersForPresident
"Yes, it's known as 4chan.",TheKidWithBieberHair,e90ni1e,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e90s50j,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e915r8v,SandersForPresident
How dare Shapiro teach us what the Constitution is and Peterson have us read some Nietzsche. The horror.,KamaCosby,e91a0bp,SandersForPresident
"Given that the ""thought leaders"" of the far left are university professors I find it far more insidious that they aren't held to account for teaching their political view.  But, again the right is always wrong.",Brick0000000,e91c7s9,SandersForPresident
This is why democrats continue to lose. All they do is spew manufactured buzzword bullshit. At some point they will have to offer something real.,Itsamadmadmadworld,e91edk1,SandersForPresident
You start calling them terrorist and they will start calling you terrorist and more violence ensues.,Winnertoday,e91f9vf,SandersForPresident
"Right wing bad, don't be right wing! Be left wing, left wing good!",Draegoth_,e913ggl,SandersForPresident
full HRC lol,bamename,e914knh,SandersForPresident
"""Target"".. It's the other way around.",Dolden,e90wwvn,SandersForPresident
Seek individualism and it doesnt matter what herds think or do as long as they arent physically harassing you ,PointlessCarnal2018,e916mij,SandersForPresident
Makes perfect sense. Let us start banning certain thought processes and speech. She is going to go real far.,_420CakeDay,e91a8q3,SandersForPresident
"Because if we panicked about the right doing it, we would reasonably have to panic about the left doing it as well. Bubbles and isolated extremism happen on both sides, and blaming one side for it doesn’t help. We need to fix the whole system,  not just the other half. ",mazzicc,e91ahuj,SandersForPresident
"Who could have thought that making it ok to be racist against white people, and to discriminate against young males, could produce a group of disenfranchised and vulnerable people? ",jaybrese,e91cdbi,SandersForPresident
The same types of message boards that are claimed to spread mysogony and racism are the same tools used to support people like Ocasio Cortez. To make such a blanket statement blaming these platforms for the rhetoric of the user is absolutely obscene. Freedom of speech doesn't just apply to speech you agree with that would defeat the point. Combat bad speech with good speech.,komron2,e91d9r1,SandersForPresident
Is this even true? I've seen significantly more attention given to incels recently than ISIS? ,wncogjrjs,e91334g,SandersForPresident
"...and the unibomber was a democrat.  What's your point?  


EDIT:  You actually have a good point.  The article headline however leaves me wondering why people care about the political view's of a murderer?  Why does it matter if he's far-right or far-left?  ",Brick0000000,e91ca08,SandersForPresident
"I think the economic factors that play into this phenomenon are often over looked by both parties.  If you cant find a job, a stable living situation or a healthy diet its hard to find a sense of self worth let alone a date.  The far right groups see these disenfranchised left overs of our widening wealth gap and prey on them, giving them people to blame for their problems and offering a sense of belonging.  We live in a world that tells young men that if they dont have a nice car, a hot girl friend and a six pack that they are losers, and hate offers lost men an easy way to feel a sense of self worth.  It seems to me that taking away the souce of economic desperation would be a good step to cutting off this recruitment effort at the source.  It would be interesting to see a correlation between the decline of the middle class and the rise of hate group popularity.",punkrawkintrev,e914r4m,SandersForPresident
"In the past, those men usually left the tribe and conquered (or tried) others. Like literally Vikings. Sexual frustration is a powerful force every society needs to be aware of. 

We had porn to keep men content, but now even that is being shunned by mainstream outlets like No Nut November and NoFap. And losers who fail at every aspect of life are mocked endlessly too like neck beards, incels, bronies, so on. 

So they turn to radical political beliefs which vindicate them and polarize them. People always act like bullying is done by other people by sociopaths. But it is literally cool and in style to bully and mock many stereotypes of men on the internet. 

Human nature is a bitch man. ",BangalterManuel1999,e91dyb1,SandersForPresident
Well when you put it that way...,coachwhipii,e91a3dd,SandersForPresident
That’s scary for China then. The one child policy created a 30 million + wide gender gap. Good thing they don’t have access to guns like ya ,KarmaPoIice,e91lebd,SandersForPresident
Ya you see this in muslim extremist states all the time ,Acaciabutterfly,e917xlj,SandersForPresident
"Ya you see this in mslm xtrmst states all the time 

(Reddit wouldn't let me make this comment until I misspelled the two words above... REDDIT are you censoring ?) ",Acaciabutterfly,e917ydz,SandersForPresident
I was a little bit confused because in German the colour brown  (braun) can stand for being a nazi. ,waterisue,e90ufw0,SandersForPresident
"I don't think that's necessarily true. I've spent some time browsing /r/braincels and /r/IncelTears out of morbid curiosity and anecdotally it seems like they come from from all sorts of racial backgrounds. As for the far or alt-right in general, I really have no clue about demographics. ",oneinchterror,e90mu1m,SandersForPresident
Yeah...... And they behead people on the reg. ,twitch1982,e90te6t,SandersForPresident
"Not to mention more dangerous and prevalent than sad, lonely men on 4chan.",VoteReagan,e91gvpn,SandersForPresident
there are sections of youtube that are a big part,MainStreaming,e90lk7q,SandersForPresident
"Also 8chan, and Voat.",oneinchterror,e90mv5b,SandersForPresident
Reddit,marter_retram,e9180en,SandersForPresident
[incels.is](incels.is),PM_ME_TENDIE_STORIES,e91c8cb,SandersForPresident
It stands for Make Iraq Great Again basically. Sounds familiar? ,yIdontunderstand,e915nhc,SandersForPresident
"Yep, just from another part of the world. American conservatives are usually hilariously unaware of it, though. ",SoFFacet,e913558,SandersForPresident
And the far right doesn't want the competition,neoikon,e912nnk,SandersForPresident
Should have been Bernie,punkrawkintrev,e9146rm,SandersForPresident
">•97% of the American people support universal background checks...

Every time you buy a gun you are run through a criminal data base to see if you are felon. 

>•83% of the American people indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases...

If I already own multiple firearms why do I need to wait 10 days to get a new one? 

>•67% of the people polled by Quinnipiac support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons...

The only 'assault' weapons you can buy now are worth around 40,000.00$. They are grandfathered in. You can not buy a new production assault weapon as a normal individual. 

>•87% support laws to prevent convicted felons and the mentally ill from owning guns...

If you are a convicted felon you can not own a gun legally. I am fairly certain being accepted into a mental health facility will disqualify you as well.

>•71% support banning anyone under 21 from buying a gun...

You can vote at 18, join the military, and be tried in court as an adult. Why shouldn't they be allowed to own a firearm at 18?

>•63% support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines...

""High capacity"" magazines are usually 'standard capacity'. A 30 round magazine isn't ""high capacity"". Anyone who trains with firearms knows a capacity limit will only make you carry more magazines are reload more often, which is going to set you back almost nothing. I feel like this is a general misconception about firearms. 

>•57% support an assault weapons ban...

But there is one in place, I can not buy an assault weapon unless I have 40,000$ or so to buy a pre-ban one.

>•56% say that stricter guns laws would reduce gun related deaths...

I mean isn't that more of an opinion? 

>•Universal background checks...

Every time you buy a firearm there is a NCIC check to see if you are a felon. 

>•Ending the so called 'Gunshow Loophole'...

If you buy a gun at a gun show you are ran through NCIC. 

>•Any American that is suffering today from a mental health crisis should be able to get the mental health care they need now, not two months from now...

I agree.

>•If somebody is a stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is under a restraining order... that person should not be owning a gun...

I believe a protection order against you revokes your right to own a gun. 

I don't think much of this is 'common sense'. Most people who talk about this stuff have not bought a gun or own one themselves. The only true thing any of this will do is hurt legal gun owners. A lot of gun violence and 'mass shootings' are gang related and involve pistols. However I don't hear anyone talking about a pistol ban.

Yes I voted for Bernie, and I would probably do it again. His state of Vermont just passed a magazine capacity limit law, and they are already the state with the -least- amount of violent crime. I really wish people would stop demonizing gun owners and the hobby. I enjoy old military rifles but enjoy my more modern ones as well. A lot of these 'laws' would only hurt the ability to collect interesting pieces of engineering and enjoy them in a safe manner. The majority of gun owners are law abiding citizens. We don't try to take people's cars because there are DUIs and reckless drivers after all.",KingArthur129,e90pq24,SandersForPresident
">I am sickened by this despicable act. Violenece of any kind is unacceptable in our society, and I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms. Real change can only come about through nonviolent action, and anything else runs against our most deeply held American values. 

-Bernie Sanders, [June 14^th '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uRu7CzQJLDE)  

>He volunteered for one debate watch party in Iowa.  

-Michael Briggs, [Sanders campaign communications director](https://www.kcci.com/article/reports-virginia-shooter-volunteered-on-bernie-sanders-iowa-campaign/10022641)  

>There are now 400,000 active volunteers working for the Sanders campaign

-Time, [Jan 6^th 2016](http://time.com/4168802/bernie-sanders-canvassing-app/)  

Like Ted Kaczynski, Tim McVeigh, Eric Rudolph, and far too many others he was a terrorist.",Chartis,e90prbh,SandersForPresident
You just said a very dumb thing. Oh we should just wait until they get their numbers up to a respectable level huh? No. We need to stop this shit now! ,ron_swansons_meat,e911gp3,SandersForPresident
"Well, no, the *most* radical leftists are Tankies. It's just that there are only three of them and they don't typically go on killing sprees. That, and most of us are perfectly happy to acknowledge both that tankies are leftists and that they're worrisome radicals, and if they existed in numbers, there'd be just as much effort toward curbing them as toward any other violent radicals.

And *that's* the key difference. Not only aren't there terrorists running around spouting our exact rhetoric, but, also, we recognize dangerous extremism when we see it and we don't *care* whose team it purports to be a part of.

Republicans right now are perfectly happy to ally with the alt-right, to let them run wild with the Republican Party itself, but they don't want political violence in the party. But political violence is happening, and the people doing it are Republicans. Since they can't ascribe it to the alt-right, on account of they're in coalition and they don't want the guilt-by-association, they attribute it to individuals as though their ""political"" beliefs were irrelevant and the violence took place in a vacuum.",TheChance,e91wqil,SandersForPresident
The answer to bad speech is good speech. But the mainstream would rather demonize and spew vitriol.,romulusnr,e90tsy3,SandersForPresident
"The First Amendment says you can say whatever you want wherever you want to say it.
 
The First Amendment does not protect you from the consequences of what you say.",oldest_boomer_1946,e9160zg,SandersForPresident
"I see we have our first toxic douchebaggery post. ""Freedom of Speech"" is not capitalized my friend, and Cortez's twitter post has nothing to do with banning any form of speech.  

Go back to spreading your fear elsewhere. ",Harvinator06,e90nb9q,SandersForPresident
"She didn't say every republican, she said the far right. If you only ""lean"" right, you shouldn't feel referenced by her comment in any way. ",SoFFacet,e912x7b,SandersForPresident
"Finally was looking for this response!

Also a minor correction to your comment. ""Kill everyone in brutal horrific ways"" ",_DEVIIL_,e912gws,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e91jsse,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e91jsif,SandersForPresident
"Purported ""incels"" have been responsible for two mass shootings in the US this year. That could be part of the reason.",GrandpaChainz,e91j5px,SandersForPresident
"Because the Right--conservatives--have always been responsible for the VAST majority of violence in our nation, from the treasonous confederates fighting for slavery, causing the deaths of hundreds of thousands, not to mention those whom they exploited; then you've got the 4,000+ *documented* lynchings per NAACP, clinic bombings, and all the hate crimes on Hispanics and Muslims and Sikhs (who look Muslim... not really).

Remember the Oaklahoma City bomber that killed a bunch children in a daycare with his attack, Timothy McVeigh? He was a lunatic nut-job who disagreed with law-enforcement and their crackdown on Waco and Ruby Ridge and all those lunatic soverign citizens/religious nut-jobs/""free folk"". Ultra right-wing conservative extremists.

Basically, he was the same sort of dumbass as the Bundy crew terrorists who did an armed takeover of a Federal facility in Oregon ([Watch this Documentary covering these terrorists](https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/american-patriot-inside-the-armed-uprising-against-the-federal-government/)). 

It's places like The_Donald that instigate domestic terrorism. And fun fact: For the past 16+ years, radical right-wing conservative groups have been a larger threat **[per the FBI](https://foreignpolicy.com/2017/08/14/fbi-and-dhs-warned-of-growing-threat-from-white-supremacists-months-ago/)** than any other domestic group. Moreover, radical right-wingers have [killed *far* more people in the U.S. since Trump's election than any foreigner or Muslim.](https://www.vox.com/world/2017/10/2/16396612/las-vegas-mass-shooting-terrorism-islam)

And whaddyaknow, [Stephen Paddock, the Las Vegas shooter was both a gun nut and of the *exact* same breed as Bundy and McVeigh:](https://news.vice.com/en_us/article/kzk8dx/las-vegas-shooter-ranted-about-gun-control-and-right-wing-conspiracies-weeks-before-the-massacre)

>Another woman recalled overhearing a man that looked like Paddock talking to another man at a restaurant in las Vegas days before the massacre. She told police that **Paddock was ranting about two separate events that took place in the 1990s**. One was the standoff at **Ruby Ridge**, Idaho, in 1992, where a right-wing activist resisting federal weapons charges moved with his family to a remote cabin, leading to an 11-day armed standoff with authorities. The other was the 51-day standoff in **Waco, Texas**, between a Christian cult and police, which led to the deaths of more than 80 people, including 22 children. 

and

>One man told the FBI and police that less than one month before the massacre, Paddock responded to his online ad selling schematics which showed how to transform your semi-automatic rifle to make it fire like an automatic weapon. “Somebody has to wake up the American public and get them to arm themselves,” the man recalled Paddock saying during their meeting outside a Las Vegas sporting goods store. “Sometimes sacrifices have to be made.” 

(Very odd, also, how Vegas police tried to keep these documents locked up.)

These kind of people are amped up by the rhetoric from Trump. When Trump tells them to commit violence at his rallies, eventually, someone will do it. Just a few weeks ago, we had a [""Florida Man who Threatened to Kill Democrats and 'Weak Republicans' Over Kavanaugh Nomination""](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/florida-man-threats-to-kill-congress-kavanaugh_us_5bb77dfbe4b028e1fe3d3650), saying:

>“I can’t do this by myself, I need more conservatives going into liberal homes at night killing them in their sleep,” Patrick said.

From Snopes:

>Over the past decade, extremists of every stripe have killed 372 Americans. **74 percent of those killings were committed by right wing extremists. Only 2 percent of those deaths were at the hands of left wing extremists. Mayo told us:**

>""I don’t want to give moral equivalence to the two sides because one side is fighting against white supremacy.  On the Antifa side, they’ve never murdered anyone but there have been many murders done by white supremacists, so we have to be concerned about that movement.""

Of course, you have the MAGABomber and the Pittsburgh lunatic as just more examples of right-wing extremism in the past week. 

Conservatives love to pretend that those tree-huggin' bleedin'-heart peace-lovin' anti-gun hippies are somehow deranged murderers!! Whoops. Are they snowflakes, or they are they literally Hitler...? So when they point to cases of liberal violence, sometimes they're right, but as always they play the game of false-equivalence. If they want to play the game of who can list the most tragedies, the statistics outright prove I'll win in showing conservatives are more violent in America.",lennybird,e91eu32,SandersForPresident
"“He was vehemently anti-leftist, arguing that leftism in general was inherently totalitarian. However, he also felt that mainstream conservatives were deluding themselves by opposing leftism yet continuing to support technological and industrial development instead of recognizing the role that he felt they played in leftism's advance. In his mind, cultural relativism, political correctness, class warfare, identity politics, and other aspects of modern leftism were all merely symptoms of the problems created by industrial civilization, the end result of taking away people's connection to the subsistence lifestyle they evolved for and leaving them with only ""trivial"" matters to focus their attention on. He argued that humanity should overturn industrial civilization and return to a primitive hunter-gatherer society, rejecting the idea that the technology of the modern world could be reformed in any way. This shift should come sooner rather than later, so as to reduce the pain caused by its collapse — if we wait any longer, he argued, we'd enable technological civilization to enslave and murder even more people than such a collapse would harm.”",Acmnin,e91leip,SandersForPresident
Because ideology informs action.,hollywood_halo_,e91cnqe,SandersForPresident
Yea except political ideology didn't make him crazy. MKUltra did. & Its Unabomber after the acronym UNABOM. (University and Airline Bomber),ProbablyPostingNaked,e91dipy,SandersForPresident
It helps justify in one's mind hating an entire group of people ,timodmo,e91cp61,SandersForPresident
">Your life is not going well because of an economic and political system which is dominated by people at the top whose interest it is to make sure that your life doesn't go well. That's the problem.  

>If Democrats aren't willing to say that people will turn this country over to the white nationalists.    

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=3085)  ",Chartis,e916qu7,SandersForPresident
"This. Also true for all crime, traficking and prostitution. ",Atysh,e91d48c,SandersForPresident
"Economic?  

Biological!  If your environment is unsustainable for you, you engage in progressively riskier means to create stability for yourself.  On the population level, more and more people's algorithms become susceptible to this versus a population that provides more security.  Bees do it, birds do it, we do it.  ",likechoklit4choklit,e917s28,SandersForPresident
"What about the San Bernardino shooter and others matching that demographic? He was an entitled rich kid.

Access to resources is a factor, but it might not even be the most important one with respect to mass shooters who are almost unanimously upper-middle class white males. ",killtr0city,e91odmt,SandersForPresident
">If you cant find a job, a stable living situation or a healthy diet its hard to find a sense of self worth let alone a date.  The far right groups see these disenfranchised left overs of our widening wealth gap and prey on them, giving them people to blame for their problems and offering a sense of belonging.

I concur.

But I would extend your explanation in the following way: just like there is vast wealth/income inequality, I would also argue that there is vast inequality in the dating/romantic scene.  For the lack of a better term, I'm going to call it *mating inequality*. (please feel free to improve on this lousy terminology)  Our contemporary society produces a lot outcasts, especially men, who have little or no chance to find a partner.  These two inequalities are probably very much correlated, with financially struggling men likewise having trouble finding a partner.

Just as wealth/income inequality can lead to violence, crime and instability; mating inequality too can lead to violence, crime and instability.  I think we are seeing the effects of this in many places.",miltondepeyracpeyran,e916j35,SandersForPresident
">In the past, those men usually left the tribe and conquered others. Like literally Vikings. Sexual frustration is a powerful force every society needs to be aware of.

True.

So in the absence of sending young people to conquer places, what can we do about this problem?",miltondepeyracpeyran,e91e4ht,SandersForPresident
No it is just that Reddit databases are notoriously slow today :)  Your other comment also made it.,miltondepeyracpeyran,e9197hh,SandersForPresident
does that come from the Brownshirts?,CreamyGoodnss,e90xfha,SandersForPresident
"Part of the problem with all of these terms is that they essentially can mean whatever we want them to mean. The ""alt-right"" for example seems to have a very different definition dependent on who is referencing the term. ",outlawyer11,e90rn28,SandersForPresident
"Reddit is by and large white and middle class. By extension, so are most subreddits. 

",Rolling_offset,e912wqt,SandersForPresident
"the difference between far-right and alt-right is similar to the difference between  'social democrat' and 'democratic socialist.'
I hope that helps.",Orchid777,e90u45t,SandersForPresident
"Whether it's beheading people or running them over with cars, the victim is still dead.",EdwardPenishands965,e913h01,SandersForPresident
"BEN SHAPIRO DESTROYS RANDOM PURPLE HAIRED KID IN DEBATE

plz like and subscribe",theDarkAngle,e90mtu2,SandersForPresident
"The front page of Voat is ""now"" predominantly anti-semitic and conspiratorial esque news stories. It's shockingly apparent how hijacked that service is, but I guess it's no surprise.  You position yourself as the center of uncensored speech for Pizzagate people and low and behold. ",Harvinator06,e90n4o3,SandersForPresident
"> We don't try to take people's cars because there are DUIs and reckless drivers after all.

I've got a question for you then...why don't we have a 'Gun Owners Ed' class that people have to take before operating a gun, like we do cars? Why do we not require a license before operating a gun, just like we do every other thing out there potentially dangerous to those around you? You need a gun to drive a car, to operate heavy machinery, to fly an airplane. And those licenses can be taken away if you are shown to be reckless with it. What makes guns so special?

And don't quote 2nd Amendment at me. That's an outdated rule created during times where the situations are not AT ALL similar. It's not written in stone. There is a process for repealing Amendments, put in there precisely because the Founders were smart enough to realize that *things change* and the Constitution should change with them. If you can't defend the 'right to bear arms' with logic that makes sense *today* without resorting to 'because the Founders *told* me I could do it'...then the Amendment is indefensible and should be updated or removed. (And just to head off another one...if every single citizen of this country had a gun and knew how to use it, we *still* couldn't overthrow our government with the military behind them. That's a stupid argument, too.)",wdjm,e91blc7,SandersForPresident
"[Bullshit!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY)  

>Every time you buy a gun you are run through a criminal data base to see if you are felon. 

[Nope:](https://www.atf.gov/firearms/docs/guide/federal-firearms-regulations-reference-guide-2014-edition-atf-p-53004/download) Private purchases in lawful sales made outside of federally regulated dealerships are not subject to such rules 

>why do I need to wait 10 days to get a new one  

Because such regulations [save lives.](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2018/mar/24/doug-jones/yes-waiting-periods-gun-purchases-have-been-linked/)  

>You can not buy a new production assault weapon as a normal individual. 

[Assault weapons](https://www.cnn.com/2013/01/31/politics/gun-language/index.html) are semiautomatic firearms with a large magazine of ammunition that were designed and configured for rapid fire and combat use  

>I am fairly certain being accepted into a mental health facility will disqualify you as well.

[Nope:](https://www.cnn.com/2018/02/15/politics/mental-health-gun-possession-explainer/index.html) If the person was taken in for mental treatment involuntarily but was not requested to be held past 72 hours, he is not blocked from buying a gun.  

>Why shouldn't they be allowed to own a firearm at 18  

[Because](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_school_shootings_in_the_United_States) of the massive amount of immediate harm, pain, & trauma being needlessly caused to others.   

>will only make you carry more magazines are reload more often, which is going to set you back almost nothing  

[It makes a difference](https://www.huffingtonpost.ca/entry/high-capacity-magazine-ban_us_5aa843c9e4b0f7a689cd31ff) and if it doesn't to lawful use then it's a good idea.  

>there is one in place  

The Public Safety and Recreational Firearms Use Protection Act [expired on September 13, 2004](https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42957.pdf)  

>isn't that more of an opinion  

Nope: [U.S. states with the strongest firearm laws have fewer suicides than states that take a more permissive approach to regulating these weapons](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2673375)  

>If you buy a gun at a gun show you are ran through NCIC.   

[Nope:](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gun_show_loophole) ""Under federal law, private-party sellers are not required to perform background checks on buyers, record the sale, or ask for identification, whether at a gun show or other venue. This is in contrast to sales by gun stores and other Federal Firearms License (FFL) holders, who are required to perform background checks and record all sales on almost all buyers, regardless of whether the venue is their business location or a gun show. Some states have passed laws to require background checks for private sales with limited exceptions. Access to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) is limited to FFL holders.""  

>a protection order against you revokes your right to own a gun.

Your belief is misplaced: ""[The law’s definition of who is a domestic abuser is “quite specific.” The measure requires, for example, that the victim and the abuser have to have been married or have had a child together, or have lived together. Thus the Lautenberg Amendment does not apply to people who are dating, which gives rise to what advocates call “the boyfriend loophole.”](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/06/us/politics/domestic-abuse-guns-texas-air-force.html)    

>I voted for Bernie, and I would probably do it again.  

Right on.  

Go right ahead and talk about a pistol ban if you'd like but the same tired and weak NRA talking points are worn out. Bernie's slate of common sense legislation would regulate firearms quite well to good benefit, are wanted by the majority of Americans, and are both politically expedient & wise.",Chartis,e90qrfm,SandersForPresident
Yes you do. You take people's licence away if they prove to be a dangerous driver.... Standard. ,yIdontunderstand,e915rhr,SandersForPresident
"We shouldn't wait. This deserves immediate attention.   

[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1058122670515109888)

* It is not an exaggeration to say that [lives are at stake](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2017/jun/27/bernie-s/bernie-sanders-projection-thousands-added-deaths-g/) in this election.

 This is about whether tens of millions of Americans will keep their health care or whether Republicans will take it away.  

>28,000 people every single year could die as a result of that legislation and that is 9x more than the tragic losses we suffered on 9/11, *each and every year.*  

-Bernie Sanders, [July 9^th '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5K968MZk77I&feature=youtu.be&t=2959)


>No matter what lies Republicans are spreading on the campaign trail, they cannot ignore the truth: last year they tried to throw 23 million Americans off of health insurance and only failed by one vote, and have been working for years to remove protections for people with pre-existing conditions and to slash Medicare and Medicaid.

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157430400837908)  ",Chartis,e918nrw,SandersForPresident
"Because it won't get to that level. There's one thing being sided to a certain political party and another of wanting to kill everyone and everything that opposes your views. Or do you honestly believe far right people or ,to keep stuff equal, far left people are going to go around beheading and killing people in brutal ways? Honestly curious. ",_DEVIIL_,e912ma5,SandersForPresident
"Anarchists and communists are by and large good people who have a positive affect on their community. Tankie is more a derogatory term than an actual identity. 

Yes, some of them believe violence had been historically necessary for justice in the past, and will be necessary in the future. But how is that any different than Democrats and Republicans who said Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam, and Yemen were necessary for justice and goodness to prevail? How is it different from mainstream politics which says we need a military group policing our streets and mass incarceration in order for order, justice, and goodness to prevail?

The difference is who the violence is being carried out by. In one case, it's the state and the wealthy against the people. In the other it's the people against the state and the wealthy. 

Terrorizing and killing working people is against left wing politics. It's inherent in right wing politics.",Rolling_offset,e92o8ka,SandersForPresident
"True story.  I just think the current trend of censoring the internet sites like google/youtube, facebook, twitter, and even reddit is as concerning as anything.

Bernie should have easily won the primary in 2016.  I hope he is strong enough and smart enough to run again and not back down.",Orangutan,e90una8,SandersForPresident
How is that any different from societies that don't have the First Amendment.,Orangutan,e917d9h,SandersForPresident
"No the twitter post doesn't call for banning Freedom of Speech (which is an idea and thus can be capitalized) in 280 characters, it asks a question, which could lead to the conclusion that getting rid of freedom of speech is the answer.

I find insulting someone in a conversation is toxic and doesn't contribute the conversation.",StoneColdCrazzzy,e90syrn,SandersForPresident
I'm quite sure they want to kill America and anyone who doesn't believe in their cult ,mavericknaked28,e918iom,SandersForPresident
"Would be part of it for sure, but there is significantly more ISIS deaths this year (albeit not in the US) and significantly more ISIS members/affiliates. 

I guess it is probably also has something to do with the fact that ISIS has had news coverage for a while, but the 'incel' situation is relatively new. 

But surely drawing the comparison between the two saying 'Ask yourself why we panic over ISIS, but not the far-right' is a bit far-fetched. They are two completely different things, one is a group set out to destroy anything that isn't it, and the other is a group who feel ostracized and some have taken the step of taking it out on others. 

&#x200B;",wncogjrjs,e91k31r,SandersForPresident
"So, let me get you perfectly straight with this.  In Chicago, the murder capitol of America, what do you think the general political ideology is?  How about in New York?  Los Angeles?  You want to point fingers and say that the right is ""crime"" ridden but last time I checked your major crime epicentre's are left leaning.

Now, how many people who provide material support for terrorism do you think vote Republican?  How many people who profit from the Mexican drug trade do you think support the republican party and their stance on immigration?  You are guilty of acknowledging the worst of the right but not even seeing the worst of the people who vote left.

Here's the best part though, does it really matter what political party an asshole supports?  I don't think Timothy McVeigh represents the right anymore than I think Osama Bin Laden represented Muslim's.  The difference is if you say one you're lauded as ""progressive"" whereas when you say the other it's obvious you're a racist. 
",Brick0000000,e91g7b2,SandersForPresident
So you're all for profiling large groups of people based on the ideology of affiliated zealots?  Interesting...,Brick0000000,e91gtjq,SandersForPresident
The number of union members that voted for Trump is proof of this failure by the DNC,punkrawkintrev,e916z2j,SandersForPresident
"Problem is, Democrats are just as interested in keeping the ruling class in power. They're the *other* right wing party in this country. Until we have a real progressive left movement we're gong to get the same shit ",Nastyboots,e91ckxz,SandersForPresident
Wise words.,miltondepeyracpeyran,e9170au,SandersForPresident
"I think it has more to do with societal expectations in the dating scene, there are just as many female outcasts.  The problem is that if youre in that situation youre unlikely to desire an equitable partner.  ",punkrawkintrev,e916sxz,SandersForPresident
"There are just as many lonely 'outcast' women as men.  Where I think the difference comes in, is that women are taught that they deserve to be treated in a certain way by advertising.  Women seem to accept their failure easier than men.  Men on the other hand are taught that they must be successful and will get a beautiful (advertising image) woman on their arm.  The problem is success is not as quantified as beauty, so some men feel that the 'beautiful' women is owed them, if they feel successful.  A lot of these lonely men will not date the outcast women because they are below their perceived status.  
I think men commit suicide more because of lack of perceived  financial success than romance success.  Women (maybe because of hormones) seem to be able to bestow their love onto family members and animals, with more grace than men.  
This doesn't mean that women don't get angry about the lack of romance, it's just that they are taught it is their fault if they are alone.  
My father told me that my marriage wouldn't have fallen apart if I had been more of a woman.",rosygoat,e91g00d,SandersForPresident
"Well I said earlier that porn is a great way to keep men non-violent, but BOTH mainstream outlets like Reddit (No Nut November and NoFap) as well as strong political groups are all marketing abstinency as the “better” way to live and be more committed to the “cause”. ",BangalterManuel1999,e91ehrk,SandersForPresident
Yes. They were army surplus and the Nazi party got hold of them cheaply to clothe the SA.,blackcatkarma,e91fm2r,SandersForPresident
No. Eva Braun ,GreenThumbKC,e914fph,SandersForPresident
"We should all stop using the term alt-right, Richard Spencer came up with that term so people would stop calling them Nazis",punkrawkintrev,e9141ka,SandersForPresident
"No it isn't. The difference between ""far right"" and ""alt-right"" is that Richard Spencer coined a new term for the far right's giant, unholy alliance and now it's called the alt-right.",TheChance,e91oqss,SandersForPresident
ISIS followers do that too.,twitch1982,e91iwo5,SandersForPresident
"I'm not implying that you or anyone here is suggesting the following, but I think its an important thing to discuss.

If, for argument sake, Ben Shapiro is considered an entry way to extremist right views... which is a more reasonable suggestion:

1. Demand Ben Shapiro be removed from youtube.

2. Demand youtube retool its algorithm.

10-15 years ago someone like Ben Shapiro would have never been lumped in with right wing extremists but now there seems to be a pretty solid wall where someone can be comfortably placed by their opposition. This seems like a problem to me.

I've seen plenty of people online talking about the problem with youtube's algorithm. Where clicking on something relatively innocuous can automatically, with no action needed by the user, slowly lead you to some pretty dark stuff.

Not to mention, the manner in which youtube's algorithm seems to operate and how attention is gained in today's digital arena, there seems to be a lot of clickbait titles that don't necessarily represent the content of the video. I'm personally sick and tired of seeing ""Watch this guy smash SJW's!"" or such. Not necessarily because of the content of the videos... but that the titles are a lightning rod for people looking for that kind of thing and often the content or nuance in said videos is in no way expressed in such a myopic title and you find that nuanced discussions can and will get lumped together with some more extremist content.

",Hazzman,e90tvwq,SandersForPresident
The turd I'm dropping rn is smarter than Ben Shapiro ,GIJOEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE,e90oqp3,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I made an account when they first launched because I was excited about the prospect of a potential reddit competitor (seriously, we need one) but the site is largely unusable. ",oneinchterror,e90nzsa,SandersForPresident
"The right to vote is probably more dangerous than the right to any firearm. Firearms can kill men, but the results of voting can kill the planet. It then makes sense that we should restrict voting to people who can wield it responsibly. Maybe we should restrict it to people who have a vested interest in the land. Maybe property owners. Then again, millennials have trouble owning property so perhaps we should at least limit it to those who are educated. Foreigners who become American citizens have to take a civics test so maybe native-born American should take them too? If that's too complicated, maybe we should just settle for basic literacy tests. Uneducated people make uneducated decisions and we don't want that. Not to mention that they're especially vulnerable to propaganda.

The thing about rights is that when you lose them, they're significantly harder to bring them back since you just shifted the whole status quo. You don't give up your rights lightly.

As for beating the military, that's not really an argument because you don't need to beat the military; you just need to make it really costly for them to beat you. Just look at pretty much all of the armed conflicts the US is part of now. We've poured $900 billions into Afghanistan and what have we gotten?",kimchifreeze,e91ih9y,SandersForPresident
"Involuntarily short term holds are for evaluation; patients are often sent home afterwards.  The word of family members can be enough for a hold, and family members can be more off kilter than the patient.  Bladder infections, fevers, motion sickness and drugs can also be a cause for a hold. 

I agree on many points, but frankly I believe 16 year old should be able to use guys with proper training, vetting, and supervision.",gorbal,e90wkue,SandersForPresident
"I respect your opinion. However know that if someone wants to cause harm he or she is going to do it. 

Laws that restrict what people can purchase are only going to harm those who wish to enjoy firearms as a sport, or other recreation. I personally use firearms every day at my job. I do firearms instructing in a law enforcement capacity. 

The issue I have with most of these 'laws' is people who want them enacted do not 'know' about firearms. They don't know how they work, or function. Most of them have never fired a gun before let alone held one. Once you understand that a firearm is nothing more then a machine you start to understand that, like a car, it is nothing more then an extension of a human who has a will to do something.

Look at other countries where guns are regulated. Their violent crime is almost the same, except the guns have been replaced with knives.

I would ask anyone 'afraid' of guns to look into an introductory course on firearms before making a decision on making laws more difficult for people enjoying the hobby.",KingArthur129,e90r2yf,SandersForPresident
I know next to nothing about guns but assault rifles are full automatic not semi automatic. Unless you talking about muskets or a shotgun you’ll be talking about semi automatic guns.,bERt0r,e912die,SandersForPresident
Agreed. ,romulusnr,e923h3l,SandersForPresident
"Other societies you know you'll get punished before saying something. In the US, you only find out after you say it.",kyousei8,e91i36p,SandersForPresident
"You're throwing red-herrings. Crime in Chicago isn't being committed by liberals nor for political reasons, silly goose. By that logic, in proportion to population, the widely liberal NYC has some of the lower homicide rates with also strict gun control, so that nullifies your point. 

Party does not equal Ideology. Yes, it quite frankly does matter. I'm simply stating a fact that conservatives are responsible for the vast majority of violence in our nation's history and have already provided the data to show it. You've provided *nothing* while spouting unfounded lies and false equivalence. 
",lennybird,e91gs56,SandersForPresident
"Look, I know you're just here to argue, but for the sake of other readers I'm gonna respond.

Nobody is talking about crime in Chicago because that is not politically motivated. It is motivated by other things, poverty and gang culture, but not radical politics. It's a whole diffrent conversation.

Osama is most certainly representative of radical Islam. And people do talk about that in this country A LOT.

This shooter, like the last four attackers this year, are representatives of a right wing extremist movement that is becoming more popular in the US recently. That is what he represents. Not moderate conservatives. Extremists.

What all these commenters are saying is that nobody seems to be treating these right wing extremists as seriously as they would treat Islamic extremists despite the right wing extremists being significantly more common.

That's the point being made.",Skippyscreamy,e91hbgs,SandersForPresident
"Nah, just profile the people that go the same sites this zealot goes to. The government is probably all over that anyways.


Good job grasping at straws though? cringe",pyrowolf8,e91ixow,SandersForPresident
It is not just Trump&US.  Union members around the world are flocking to nationalist parties.  The centrists have to put forward an aggressive reform plan or we'll go back to 1930s.,miltondepeyracpeyran,e917fi9,SandersForPresident
"Which party being in power makes that more likely, though? That's what always puzzled me about those Bernie supporters that voted for Trump. There are a lot of similarities among some of the political elite, but when people acted like the same policies and programs would result (which is what a lot of people forget they're saying when they say ""they're all the same"") that has no real sense behind it.",AnnualThrowaway,e91eflz,SandersForPresident
"[Real movement](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg), making progress. From the same address:

>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  



>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

>if I ran... [I would run](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png) within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)",Chartis,e91d5x7,SandersForPresident
">there are just as many female outcasts

That is something I'm curious about.  Having a large group of male outcasts breeds violence and instability.  Why doesn't the same happen for females?  Either there are a lot fewer female outcasts, or the same frustration finds other channels to express itself.  I don't know the answer here.",miltondepeyracpeyran,e917pjr,SandersForPresident
"Also to give the radical right a ""big tent"" of their own.",TheChance,e91oh1n,SandersForPresident
Which is also incorrect.,SithAlpaca,e91kpqa,SandersForPresident
"I don't really associate Shapiro to the alt right any more than I associated marijuana with cocain. The only thing making him a ""gateway"" in my opinion are the people who insist he is dangerous. **I don’t agree with him on things**, but he isn't an idiot or evil. People who figure that out for themselves end up wondering what else down that rabbit hole they're being ""lied"" about and end up in a worse place. Tell them to watch Shapiro and then have a discussion with them afterwards so they can explore what is and isn't worth taking away from it.",Eggyhead,e90xvzd,SandersForPresident
"Oh the irony of people talking about alienation, but then associating Ben Shapiro with the far right.",CallMeBigPapaya,e90u7hm,SandersForPresident
"Oh the irony of people talking about alienation, but then associating Ben Shapiro with the far right.",CallMeBigPapaya,e90u7pb,SandersForPresident
Khazar Milkers ftw,drogods,e90rmbc,SandersForPresident
"We DO limit it to people who can wield it responsibly - you have to be over 18 and take the responsibility to get yourself registered and get to the proper polling places, taking time off work to get there, etc. You have to have proven you're a US citizen - which takes a level of responsibility to provide the documents, etc. So in short...that's a rather dumb 'what-about-ism'.

> The thing about rights is that when you lose them, they're significantly harder to bring them back since you just shifted the whole status quo. You don't give up your rights lightly.

Agreed. Which is why many of us are so bloody PISSED OFF that our rights to have our children attend school in safety has been taken away. That our right to attend a movie, sporting event, or even *church* safely has been taken away. That even our right to express anger at a driver who cut us off has been taken away - because it's highly likely that the asshole driver just may shoot you if you dare yell at him. The 'status quo' has *already* shifted - and its in the favor of the gun lobby.

",wdjm,e91lkqv,SandersForPresident
"Involuntary holds would not trigger the psychiatric restriction.

And yes a 16yo can USE guns - but should not be able to *buy* them. *Especially* without a waiting period.",wdjm,e90yysh,SandersForPresident
"Knives are much less fatal - and less likely to deter people from rushing the attacker to stop him.

And it really grinds my gears how the gun lobby folks assume that people calling for regulation don't know anything about guns. I've shot my whole life. My dad's a collector and spent years as the sharp-shooter instructor for his Reserve unit (among others). I've made sure that my kids have had firearm instruction.

You know what all that time around firearms has taught me? That they are WEAPONS - they are not 'tools'. THEY ARE WEAPONS. Their design and purpose is to kill things. Yes, most people only 'kill' paper or clay targets, but it doesn't change the fact that a gun has no other purpose of design than to kill. Even a knife is designed for cooking or carving rather than killing. Calling them a 'tool' does not come near affording them the respect they are due. It demeans them into something they are not and convinces people that they are not needing that respect. You can wave a hammer around in the air without killing anyone. You can shove it down your pants as a 'holster' without blowing your nuts off. You can wave it in someone's face without potentially killing them. It can be tossed in the air and - while it may hurt someone if you're stupid enough to not watch where you throw it - it's unlikely to *kill* anyone. THAT is a tool. If you wave a gun around in the air, you're a homicidal moron. If you fire them in the air without thinking of where the bullet will land, you're a homicidal moron. A gun is NOT a 'tool'. It is a weapon. Which brings up:

> it is nothing more then an extension of a human who has a will to do something.

Nope. It's a weapon. That moron waving it around or firing it into the air may not 'have a will' to kill anyone, but he might very well kill someone anyway. The toddler wandering around in her parent's bedroom may not 'have a will' to commit suicide, but that won't stop her from being dead from finding her parent's gun.  And before you come back with 'a knife lying around could kill her, too' - yes, but not as easily. And she's much more likely to cut a hand first and drop the knife - minor wound instead of fatal. Even if she fell with the knife, the wound is much less likely to be as severe as a gunshot would be.

A gun is the only weapon that is just as likely to cause a fatal *accident* as it is to be used purposefully to kill. A gun is the only weapon offered for private ownership that can be used to kill dozens from a distance - removing any chance of the potential victims fighting back. A gun deserves the respect of being regulated to the point that people REALIZE the respect it deserves. ",wdjm,e90zud4,SandersForPresident
"""However know that if someone wants to cause harm, he or she is going to do it.""

It's a common refrain that ""criminals don't obey laws."" What seems to get missed though is that the purpose of a law isn't to control behavior, it's to create a legal intervention point for law enforcement to prevent the situation from escalating further. 

As to the right way to do that with respect to firearms, your guess is as good as mine..",kgruesch,e91lcpm,SandersForPresident
"I don't link to sources here because I want you to choose your own. You can use WorldBook, StatCan, or a host of other such resources, and you'll get more or less the same results. By explicitly declining to name a specific source, I hope to skip the part where people ask if we can *really* trust [the CIA/the UN/the World Bank/the Canadian government/insert source for macro-level statistics].

So thumb through homicide figures in Western/ized nations with and without strong gun control laws. You'll find they're 60-75% lower.

To me, this suggests that in 2/3-3/4 of cases where a person might shoot someone else or themselves, they are not prepared to do it in a more physical manner. It's both easier to shoot someone impulsively and easier to shoot someone *period*. It's a comparatively disengaged way to attack a person, and it doesn't require any physical strength, dexterity, or stamina, aside from aiming well.

And if that is indeed true in a decisive majority of cases, it speaks for itself.

I'm not arguing for a gun ban, but

> if someone wants to cause harm he or she is ~~going to do it~~ significantly more likely to go through with it if they have access to a gun",TheChance,e91q3gp,SandersForPresident
"I own firearms. I worked as a chaplain, and participated in law enforcement training. I understand they are devices of power that shape human action in terms of potency and immediacy that works out from how we as people operate into influence on our world. They shape how we think & act.   

>[strong firearm laws in a state were associated with lower firearm suicide rates and lower overall suicide rates in the state regardless of the strength of the laws in other states. Strong firearm laws in a state were associated with lower rates of firearm homicide. Counties in states with weak laws had lower rates of firearm homicide only when surrounding states had strong laws.](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2673375)  

---  

>[a drop in murders overall. “Murderers simply do not choose another weapon”. This likely especially applies to domestic abusers. A woman whose violent partner has access to a gun is five to eight times more likely to be killed. If guns disappeared, partners who lash out in a moment of anger are much less likely to inflict fatal damage](http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20180417-what-would-happen-if-all-guns-disappeared)  

I would ask that you pick a better venue to try to advocate against firearms being well-regulated than in an anonymous online political forum thread about a double murder.",Chartis,e90rd61,SandersForPresident
You can say whatever you want.  USA at least has some protections in place to prevent what they consider unjust punishments.,Orangutan,e91o6us,SandersForPresident
"Are you kidding?  They absolutely are treated exactly the same way as extremists of other groups.  The thing you seem to not understand is that so is the left.  As soon as you appear to be a zealot the standard prudent person tunes you out.
",Brick0000000,e91icgx,SandersForPresident
"I personally believe grouping people into stereotypes based on the actions of radicals to be wrong.   Is that really cringe worthy when I use the same standards on all groups of people and not just minorities?
",Brick0000000,e91jh86,SandersForPresident
"I blame Bill Clinton, when he signed NAFTA and went after welfare he effectively lead the party of the people to abandon the people",punkrawkintrev,e917l84,SandersForPresident
"I'm still not convinced that anyone who really supported Bernie for his policies and message voted Trump. Likely they were just people who wanted to shake things up. Still, your point is understood, I just don't want people to get disheartened when democrats don't do all that much when they regain power. ",Nastyboots,e95z6na,SandersForPresident
"Female outcasts are much more likely to cast the blame on themselves - they're too fat, too skinny, too plain, not outgoing enough, don't dress right...the list is endless. We don't strike out with violence because we're too busy beating *ourselves* up.",wdjm,e919x0w,SandersForPresident
">but he isn't an idiot or evil. 

[Are you sure about that?](https://static.currentaffairs.org/2017/12/the-cool-kids-philosopher)",retop56,e914bco,SandersForPresident
he's Rush Limbaugh for Millennials,theDarkAngle,e90vuql,SandersForPresident
"I don't believe the actions of few should dictate the overwhelming change of law abiding citizens. At the end of the day, people are responsible for their own actions. 

I believe everyone, until proven unstable or untrustable, should have a right to defend themselves. Humans hurting other humans is a story age old, and it isn't going to change because a restriction was put in place for some magazines or a certain classification of firearm. Lets not kid ourselves here humans always and will have a capacity for violence.

My venue for political action is voting, and I wouldn't call anything other then reddit a social media platform where people can express their opinions in an anonymous fashion. ",KingArthur129,e90rs41,SandersForPresident
"You are appearing to be a zealot to me, as I'm just following the logic of people talking here? You seem to be giving false equivalency arguments, ignoring counterpoints and repeating yourself. ",ToastMcToasterson,e91n95n,SandersForPresident
"Good thing you’re not in charge of intelligence services.

>Ok, so this suspicious guy followed some twitter accounts we found linked to ISIS. Says he’s an immigrant from Morocco.

>>Ackshually, I believe grouping people into stereotypes based on the actions of radicals is wroooooonng.",pyrowolf8,e91kxsb,SandersForPresident
"If a group or a movement demonstrates radical tendencies, ethnic or religious radicals, truly hardcore political radicals...

...and then members of those groups *over and over and over* commit acts of wanton violence, *whilst spouting the same rhetoric*...

...yeah.

Let's compare it with the threat of Islamic extremism, shall we? The right pulls exactly the same mindless dipshittery in reverse: the left understands we're at war with religious radicals, mostly Salafists. The right refuses to see the distinction. If it's *some* Muslims, surely it must be *all* Muslims!

But, no. Not all Muslims, *yes* all Salafists.

Likewise, not all righties, *yes* all alt-rightists.",TheChance,e91o3v0,SandersForPresident
Well men also beat themselves up and end up committing suicide at much higher rates,hueylongsgiantdong,e91ampt,SandersForPresident
"Sounds reasonable, but I wonder if there is any literature on this subject.  Given how politically sensitive the subject is, I'm hesident to trust anecdotal evidence.

Besides, as the other comment here point out, suicide rates are much higher in men then women.  One possible explanation for this is that the number of male outcasts are higher.",miltondepeyracpeyran,e91bb45,SandersForPresident
"I skimmed through the article, there's a lot to read there. What I've read I'd probably find myself agreeing with in terms of his points being debunked. I can see that... Shapiro definitely supplants quick wit with concrete thought, IMO.

But would you describe him as evil and if so is he a purveyor of hate speech? Then, should he be banned from Youtube?

Then, by extension, should all conservative media be banned from youtube? If someone says they believe homosexuality is a sin... should that be allowed on Youtube?

I'm not suggesting this is what you think (maybe it is). 
",Hazzman,e91qlw0,SandersForPresident
">Opinion piece 

Please try harder. If Shapiro is so dumb, maybe you should debate him and see how it goes for you :) Or better yet, go debunk some of his views online, and show us all how much smarter you are.",KamaCosby,e91a7qm,SandersForPresident
"I'm not going to defend Shapiro, but yes, I'm positive he's not an idiot or evil. If anything, I'm more inclined to think he's got a mental health issue that inhibits empathy, but either way he does an excellent job at exposing and dismantling weak arguments. I think that has educational value if you expect to debate people. ",Eggyhead,e91d81v,SandersForPresident
That's delusional ,CallMeBigPapaya,e916vor,SandersForPresident
"> I don't believe the actions of few should dictate the overwhelming change of law abiding citizens. 

Then you don't believe in laws at all, because that's exactly what laws ARE - the rules made to protect the larger population from the actions of a few.  It's why parks close at dusk. Why there are places where there is 'no loitering'. Why there's a drinking age. Why there is pretty much every single law ever. If 'everyone was doing it', then there would be no law - it would just be an accepted part of the culture. If it didn't impact others (at least emotionally like so-called 'morality' laws), then there would be no law because no one cares what you do as long as it doesn't impact them. If guns impacted only gun owners, the rest of us wouldn't care about making laws about them. But they impact EVERYONE.",wdjm,e90yw4s,SandersForPresident
"The actions of the many have power to enact our will through a government of, by, & for the people. We are responsible to ensure public policy is enacted that ensure life, liberty, & the pursuit of happiness. Which is better done through firearms being well regulated thus limiting needless harm, pain, & trauma.   

Humans are powerful and our ability to govern our civilization is potent indeed. Restrictions do mitigate the harm we would otherwise cause to each other.  

>The vast majority of gun owners in this country support concrete steps to lessen the number of tragedies due to gun violence. If we stand together, we can take on the NRA and protect our children. Congress must pass common-sense gun safety legislation and save innocent lives.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1769346193120377)  

>It’s a three-letter word. It’s the NRA. And it’s Trump and the Republicans who don’t have the guts to stand up to these people and that’s pretty pathetic.  

-[Bernie](https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/bernie-sanders-gun-inaction-due-to-a-three-letter-word-it-s-the-nra-1237915715847?v=railb&)  

>We've got to stand up to the gun lobby and we need common sense gun safety legislation. Guns should not be in the hands of people who should not have them. 

> We've got to end that hatred, that bigotry that is sweeping this country.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EQnS8NiFeR4)",Chartis,e90s8um,SandersForPresident
More like good thing you aren't.,Brick0000000,e91m1l5,SandersForPresident
"Well for me I just group you all in the same bucket.  ""All American's are alt-right fuckwads"" /sarcasm ",Brick0000000,e91q003,SandersForPresident
"Women are also conditioned to 'not be a bother' to others. Suicide is a huge 'bother' to those around you - even if it's just the landlord of your rented flat. It's more likely to be a concern of a woman's that the landlord isn't left with a dead body in their flat and the resultant mess & hassle. 

Obviously this is greatly generalizing and there are always outliers...but it's my personal theory. ",wdjm,e91byii,SandersForPresident
True,miltondepeyracpeyran,e91b7rk,SandersForPresident
*Successful* suicide rates are higher.,wdjm,e91c0v2,SandersForPresident
"Evil? Yes. Purveyor of hate speech? Not that I've seen. He's free to spew whatever horseshit he wants to on social media platforms, provided he doesn't break their T&C's. ",retop56,e91rdch,SandersForPresident
"The article I linked to does a good job of debunking his most common talking points. Is there anything substantive that you disagree with in Nathan J. Robinson's article, or are you just going to dismiss it simply because it's an opinion piece?",retop56,e91jonn,SandersForPresident
"Well, good thing there are people who do that.

&#x200B;

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bbINLWtMKI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9bbINLWtMKI)

&#x200B;

...And she's far more entertaining.",danpaquette,e91beqs,SandersForPresident
"Opinions are worth hearing out, even if you don't agree with them. This article has some pretty good points to pay attention to.",Eggyhead,e92an9p,SandersForPresident
The article I linked to does a pretty good job of deconstructing his most commonly referenced talking points and pointing out how absurd they are. Is there a specific point in the linked piece that you disagree with?,retop56,e91jtjt,SandersForPresident
no u,theDarkAngle,e92bkhd,SandersForPresident
I don't think i would use the Argument that men kill themselves more due to them being Self centered... ,KingHarlan393,e91drjg,SandersForPresident
"Haha, true ",miltondepeyracpeyran,e91ce3z,SandersForPresident
"I suppose we should clarify what you mean by Evil... because evil to me is something intolerable. Eating babies live on camera, to me, would constitute evil. 

",Hazzman,e91s3um,SandersForPresident
Hahaha Contrapoints. Sorry but this is literally the “PragerU” of the Left. A very unconvincing and annoying ideologue who doesn’t really know what she’s talking about.,KamaCosby,e91bjc2,SandersForPresident
"Thank you. I went back and read the article (I don't have much time in the morning) and there is some pretty solid stuff there. The point I was trying to stress, though, is that I don't think Shapiro is an idiot or evil. Some redditors are exploring how they define ""evil"" elsewhere in this thread, which is quite interesting, but I don't think having discussions on any level is evil even if your ideas are bad. (I think evil starts to happen when you actually instigate and encourage violence.) Debates are how we find out which ideas *are* bad. Your article does a good job deconstructing a lot of Shapiro's taking points, but to Shapiro's credit, he shows us when bad arguments against him are actually bad (not the ones from the article, but the ones he and his fans like to flaunt).  I guess that's what I'm trying to highlight.",Eggyhead,e92c1zj,SandersForPresident
Which is not at all what I said.,wdjm,e91f56l,SandersForPresident
">I suppose we should clarify what you mean by Evil... because evil to me is something intolerable. Eating babies live on camera, to me, would constitute evil. 

Shapiro has said that ethnically cleansing Arabs from the area is the only way to solve the Israel/Palestine conflict. That is one of many terrible things he's said about Arabs, which Robinson points out in the piece.

 I think it's safe to classify that as evil.",retop56,e91sy8w,SandersForPresident
">she

Well then. As per your comment, she knows more than Ben Shapiro!

&#x200B;",danpaquette,e91bo9w,SandersForPresident
">she

Shapiro would disagree. ",KingHarlan393,e91dki6,SandersForPresident
"> literally the “PragerU” of the Left

So she's literally a well-funded propaganda mill and think tank, whose views neither make sense *nor* do they line up with either of the party's main factions'?",TheChance,e91p5zj,SandersForPresident
"Maybe we can agree to disagree, but I think someone who has called for the ethnic cleansing of Arabs from Palestine and Israel as the only way to solve the conflict and who constantly engages in fallacy and misleads large swaths of people while claiming to be a champion of Logic™ and Reason™ would qualify as an evil idiot.",retop56,e92jg0a,SandersForPresident
"I agree, that statement is pretty evil.

There are a lot of Israeli's and Jewish people who would agree with this statement. On the flip side there are a lot of Arabs who would agree that Jew's should be treated the same in Israel. 

Shapiro has a platform, however. On the other hand there are lots of Arab pundits that believe the opposite that have platforms in the middle east.

Are all of those people, Jews/ Israelis that believe Arabs should be wiped out of Israel and Arabs who believe Jews should be wiped out of Israel... evil?

This is where it gets really tough, this constitutes a pretty large population of people engaged in an age old conflict filled with hatred towards one another. 

I wonder how useful it is to relegate them to the category of evil.

I'm not trying to defend this perspective... rather, I'm trying to approach it with understanding, because Shapiro is absolutely not alone in his perspective and on the opposite side, there are plenty that believe the same about the Jews in that region.

That conflict is a horrible mess and I wonder what is the best way to treat people who are so utterly absorbed by it to the point that they could advocate such a thing?",Hazzman,e91tg0y,SandersForPresident
"Is that not a woman? She seems to display herself as one, act like one, sounds like one, and identifies as one. Why do I give a fuck about rudely using the wrong pronoun when it’s really obvious?

Also how did I let on that she knows more than Ben Shapiro? Where did you get that from my comment? I think he’s a smart and concise Conservative political speaker, and Contrapoints really didn’t give a stronger argument than Shapiro did. I’d argue that she missed the point entirely by picking specific quotes from Shapiro to paint his entire political philosophy in the most convenient way for her to pick apart. But I very much doubt she would hold in an actual debate. ",KamaCosby,e91c8wh,SandersForPresident
"[Nah](https://youtu.be/sybYzMhmWog)

>Would I purposefully call a trans person the wrong pronoun at a dinner table? No - because that’s rude.

I don’t think Shapiro would disagree.",KamaCosby,e91dt75,SandersForPresident
Yes.,KamaCosby,e91p7e2,SandersForPresident
"Okay, I'm willing to concede that he's an idiot for thinking the way he does about things -although I don't think an idiot could otherwise end up as successful as he's been. However, and it's fine to disagree on this, believing in bad ideas and talking about them doesn't make one evil. I'd draw the line if he was physically contributing to ethnic cleansing efforts or directing his fans to do so. That would be evil in my mind.

Thanks for the discussion, though. You've given me a lot to think about.",Eggyhead,e933gv6,SandersForPresident
"Describing that viewpoint as evil is the most accurate way of describing it, regardless of how many people hold that view. Most of the world is in agreement with a two-state solution roughly along the 1967 borders, with the US and some of our allies being the odd ones out while also defending/arming Israel as they continue their illegal occupation.",retop56,e91trb2,SandersForPresident
">Why do I give a fuck about rudely using the wrong pronoun when it’s really obvious?

Ben Shapiro seems to be obsessed with it.

>Contrapoints really didn’t give a stronger argument than Shapiro did.

**NATALIE WYNN ANNIHILATES CONSERVATIVE SNOWFLAKE SHAPIRO WITH FACTS, LOGIC.**

Seriously though, Natalie clearly, concisely, and conclusively puts Ben Shapiro's views on pronouns to bed.

>entire political philosophy

Well, Natalie was just talking about gender and pronouns, so she isolated and consolidated his thoughts on... Gender and pronouns.

>But I very much doubt she would hold in an actual debate.

Live debates are exactly the kind of format that a political entertainer like Ben Shapiro would be particularly fond of. Putting people on the spot and having them essentially improv their way through arguments with no sources or domain experts on hand is a bad way to transfer information or inform people on both sides of an issue.

But he's good at it, and I can see why people would get pulled into his orbit. People respect and admire charisma, sometimes to a fault.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",danpaquette,e91dwh2,SandersForPresident
"Not saying he's transphobic, he just wouldn't call someone something they aren't.

I pass no judgement. ",KingHarlan393,e91evj8,SandersForPresident
"Yeah I believe that view point is evil. 

It's when everyone who holds that view is categorized as evil that starts to get complicated for me. Mainly because I wonder if its helpful. The way we deal with evil, historically, is to eradicate it without prejudice, no matter who it is.",Hazzman,e91txi8,SandersForPresident
"Well that’s a great point, but you do have to admit that despite the trans/gay views, Shapiro is an excellent Conservative Political philosopher. He’s very smart, and he does his research thoroughly. Live debates do sometimes work in Ben’s favor, but I disagree that it’s a bad way to disseminate political information. Look at the [Ben Shapiro v Cenk Uygr debate](https://youtu.be/8ko0DVJkLG0) and tell me it wasn’t a huge win for Ben (ignore the stupid cheering and team sports the crowd is getting involved in - ugh). This was a good debate. And live debates are an excellent litmus test for figuring out if political pundits actually know what they’re talking about.",KamaCosby,e91ejer,SandersForPresident
"Literally the very first position Shapiro takes in that video is ideology with a false choice. Affordable universal high quality health care exists in the real world now. Just not in the US. He's making the classic market worshiping mistake of equating cost with quality. The two are not tightly coupled. The greatest medical advancements of the 20th century were cheap and made widely available. Namely antibiotics and vaccines. 

Oh and then he trotted out the 'gun to the head of a doctor' line. Useful idiot ideologue there. Demagogue the position of the opposition with something scary that no one does to drive up fear and make himself sound just. Pathetic rip of Rand Paul's foolishness. No doctor is forced to provide care in universal coverage nations under anything remotely resembling penalty of death. Addled minds spin and believe such nonsense.

I don't know Shapiro other than a few random name drops from right wingers, but the first minute of his speaking alone is enough to toss him aside as an unlikely source of useful insight into prospective policy.",James_GAF,e91g4xk,SandersForPresident
"I think both Ben and Cenk are smart, talented debaters, but at the end of the day, it's political theater.",danpaquette,e91frlu,SandersForPresident
"Emphasis on “I don’t know Shapiro” and the fact that you watched the first minute of his video and threw out the whole thing. And you accuse Shapiro of being an ideologue. 

By the way, the entire point of government is that there is a gun to your head when they force decisions upon you. Not even debatable. When a doctor is a government employee under Socialist healthcare, they are forced to work for the government. And the government is the only entity that is allowed to force you to do something.",KamaCosby,e91gkt1,SandersForPresident
"If it’s how people get informed, you should be pro-political theatre.",KamaCosby,e91fthi,SandersForPresident
"Except that in both canada and england doctors are allowed private practice but very few are willing to pay because it is inefficient and expensive compared to the government system.  Shapiro loves to immediately dismiss the most convincing and inarguable evidence in the first 10 seconds to minute of his video and he absolutely should be ignored because of it.  His climate change videos are perhaps the most egregious and despicable version of this and no educated, serious person in any intellectual circle holds him up for a reason.",MikeyPWhatAG,e91j5rp,SandersForPresident
"> When a doctor is a government employee under Socialist healthcare, they are forced to work for the government. And the government is the only entity that is allowed to force you to do something.

This shows a complete misunderstanding of the proposed healthcare reform legislation put forward by people on the left like Bernie Sanders. It would provide government-run ***health insurance***, not government-run healthcare. Hospitals and care providers would still be privately-owned. It wouldn't be like the NHS where doctors/nurses/etc. are government employees.",retop56,e91m7je,SandersForPresident
"I believe that's how some people get informed. A decade ago, if you would've asked me who the preeminent political thinkers were, I would've said John Stewart and Stephen Colbert!

You live and learn, I guess.",danpaquette,e91gmcc,SandersForPresident
"Oh dang that’s a really good point. Because we should not be looking to Colbert or Stewart for political ideology, and they absolutely engage in political theatre. 

But I think the main difference is that the Politicon debate was a 2-sided debate, whereas people like Colbert purposefully obfuscate, and create echo chambers for their own political ideologies. At least Shapiro and Cenk heard each other out instead of sitting in a studio and commenting one-sidedly on a bunch of sound bites. And I don’t mean that with vitriol! I’m just saying you have a great point because it’s not necessarily a good thing when people become informed solely through political theatre. That’s how you become an ideologue.",KamaCosby,e91heqy,SandersForPresident
Cool. Should just be a national holiday though.,thesilverpig,e932e59,SandersForPresident
I'm gonna vote for AOC. ,hueylongsgiantdong,e9282dd,SandersForPresident
Omg prevent this nightmare people!!,sasiralla,e928shk,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/political_revolution] [Boss Joe Crowley remains on ballot. Vote for Ocasio-Cortez on November 6th.](https://www.reddit.com/r/Political_Revolution/comments/9u7pl0/boss_joe_crowley_remains_on_ballot_vote_for/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e925s0t,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e944690,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e92hqha,SandersForPresident
"Just tuned in and Bernie was making his very final comments. Basically:

""What I'm asking you, in fact what I'm begging you is not only to vote on Tuesday but to bring your friends to vote. Have a conversation. When your friends tell you 'politics is bullshit' explain it to them. If they want to see positive change, and if they want to fight racism, and sexism, this election is not bullshit. Politics is not bullshit.""

""Thank you very much!""",RanLearns,e92lw94,SandersForPresident
"This is before Olbermann became a neoliberal pro-corporate  democratic establishment propagandist. He was once the biggest critic of the GWB administration and now thinks GWB is a great guy. 

This is an excellent example of how Obama presidency and Trump's rise has revealed that some of the most vocal critics of GWB were not as progressive as it seems.

Rachael Maddow, Olbermann, and Chris Hayes have long abandoned covering progressive issues as a core part of their platform..  They rarely even talk about Citizen's United anymore. And to be honest, our entire government is taken over by corporate interests. Overturning Citizens United is no where near enough to stop the corporate take over.

It would be a nice improvement. But if a politician only supports over-turning Citizens United and not full public financing of elections, then I question whether they seriously care about this issue.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e930hed,SandersForPresident
Good.,InfinityCircuit,e91o45q,SandersForPresident
"This would be a far more important watch for Democrats than for Republicans. While I don't agree with everything the producer says, the video does highlight some of the fundamental issues that have brought us to our current political situation.

If you'd rather read than watch, http://innuendostudios.tumblr.com/post/179749702607/new-video-essay-this-one-is-about-how.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e91m0bv,SandersForPresident
"I was there yesterday!

&#x200B;",ZelfraxKT,e92xmji,SandersForPresident
"Vote for Howie Hawkins for governor. Cuomo is one of the most corrupt politicians in the country. And Cuomo has a pretty significant lead. You don't have to worry about being a spoiler.

If you support medicare for all, free tuition of public colleges, a green new deal, then your only choice is Hawkins. ""Vote blue no matter who"" is a proven losing strategy. Force politicians to earn your vote.

[edit] fix mispelling.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e930ngi,SandersForPresident
"* [Bernie's handpicked candidates](https://www.reddit.com/r/BernieSanders/wiki/endorsementsbybernie)  
* [Bernie's handpicked initiatives](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1056670125909250053)  
* [Our Revolution candidates](https://ourrevolution.com/candidates/)
* [Our Revolution initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives/)
* [Nomiki Konst](https://www.facebook.com/nomikikonst/posts/2444508185564854)
* [Justice Democrats](https://www.justicedemocrats.com/candidates/)  
* [Political Revolution](https://www.reddit.com/r/political_revolution/wiki/endorsements)  
* [DSA](https://www.reddit.com/r/demsocialists/wiki/dsa_endorsed_candidates_2018_general) 
* [National Nurses United](https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/nnu-endorsements)  
* [Brand New Congress](https://brandnewcongress.org/candidates)  
* [Medicare For All](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/11/02/here-are-very-first-endorsements-medicare-all-pac)  

Nomiki Konst, Christine Pellegrino, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Liuba Grechen Shirley, Jessica Ramos, Alessandra Biaggi, Zellnor Myrie, Dana Balter, Jen Metzger, Jessica Ramos, Julia Salazar, Keith Rubino, Pat Strong, Rachel May, Tedra Cobb, Yvette Clarke, Nate McMurray, Patricia Kane, Sander E Hicks, Tyler Pribulick, Adam Baumel, Deborah Lynch, Peter Keenan, Michael DeVito Jr., Ian Golden, Peter Alden Diachun, Pramilla Malick, Dana Balter, Perry Gershon, J.G. Hertzler, Tom Hillgardner, Scott Hutchins, Nate McMurray, Max Rose, Kathleen Cleary, Andrew Gounardes, Robert Jackson, John Liu, John Mannion, Keith Batman, Adam Baumel, Scott Comegys, Andrew Gilchrist, Keith Rubino, Gail Tosh, Michael Montes.  

If in doubt I'd consider Democrats, avoid Republicans at all costs, but put extra time, effort, & funds into those listed above.",Chartis,e92cvb9,SandersForPresident
"Do some research and look at their points, decide for yourself.   Don't go with somebody just because somebody else supports them.",HarrisJB78,e92uxoa,SandersForPresident
Which district are you in? You can also look up your ballot on whosontheballot.org and see if you have any Bernie-endorsed candidates you can vote for.,progentry8,e93ma6e,SandersForPresident
"I would personally recommend voting for the Green Party candidates for the statewide races, and the Working Families Party candidates for the rest.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e9477vd,SandersForPresident
"Great. Who else, and what about the proposals not just candidates?",MikeyNYC1,e93653p,SandersForPresident
is that new york?,MikeyNYC1,e92n9xi,SandersForPresident
"I pulled candidates listed in those endorsement packets (which are for all of America) that were listed as being in New York. I may have made an error or two but yes, that's races in New York state (including many local ones).",Chartis,e92neuo,SandersForPresident
">But there’s something wrong with this historical interpretation: **Harry Truman strongly supported single-payer healthcare. Daniel Patrick Moynihan supported a universal basic income in the 1960s. Dating back to World War II, Democrats sought to make a government-paid education available to as many Americans as possible.** If Democrats are marching to the left, that road leads directly back to platforms and politicians who, in their day, commanded wide support and existed firmly in the mainstream of political thought.

>What’s more, to label these programs “socialist”—which is to say, far outside the center of the political spectrum—reveals a constrained worldview. **For over six decades, center-right parties in Europe—in Britain and France, Germany and Austria, and almost everywhere between—have either participated in or acceded to the very same policies.**

.........................................

>**In the 1940s, Senators Robert Wagner and James Murray, and Congressman John Dingell, Sr., introduced legislation that would have established a national program for hospital and medical insurance.** It was stymied by a coalition of Southern Democrats and conservative Republicans, as was also the case with Harry Truman’s efforts after 1949 to achieve the same result. But it was central to the party’s core ambition for many years after.

>**Only in the 1960s did Democrats abandon the concept of universal, single-payer health care and champion a narrower program of guaranteed hospital insurance and voluntary medical insurance for the elderly—the program that we now know as Medicare.** They didn’t abandon universal coverage because they viewed it as too radical. Rather, they believed it was no longer necessary. After World War II, major employers began extending unprecedented benefits to workers, including annual cost-of-living adjustments to wages, defined benefits pensions and private health insurance. Given this reality, they turned their focus to a narrower subset of the population that, by definition, would not benefit from employer-based health programs: senior citizens.

>**The same trajectory was generally true of the party’s commitment to ensuring that every family enjoyed an adequate income. Roosevelt’s initial pledge seemed to augur a government-supported basic family wage. In 1946 the Democratic Congress passed—and Harry Truman signed—the Employment Act, which codified the government’s responsibility to “foster and promote free competitive enterprise and the general welfare; conditions under which there will be afforded useful employment for those able, willing, and seeking to work; and to promote maximum employment, production, and purchasing power.” In its original form, the bill would have guaranteed all Americans remunerative work and required the government to create public-sector or private-sector jobs to meet this mandate. In this way, it would have met Roosevelt’s quality of living standard for many families.** Conservatives blocked that provision.

>By the 1960s the American economy seemed so manifestly robust that an income or jobs guarantee no longer seemed necessary. **During his tenure as assistant labor secretary in Lyndon Johnson’s administration, Daniel Moynihan argued for a minimum family income program, to be enforced by means of a negative income tax, but his was a lone voice.** Most liberals believed that if the poorest Americans had access to supplementary job training and education, they would be adequately positioned to capture the benefits of shared prosperity. Interestingly, **the next major figure to take up the idea was no other than Richard Nixon, who as president attempted to overhaul the nation’s welfare system by introducing a family income program.** The idea stalled in Congress, with conservative Republicans opposing it as too generous, and liberal Democrats decrying it as too stingy.

>Still, even into the 1970s, Democrats continued to embrace the idea that government should in some way grant every American a good job and, thereby, income. **In 1977 Democrats in Congress passed the Humphrey-Hawkins Act** - an ambitious proposal reminiscent of the Employment Act. Once again, conservatives watered the bill down such that it lost most of its force.",gideonvwainwright,e926nth,SandersForPresident
"Someone gets it. And this is on the Hot page of r/politics, too.",S3lvah,e92ar9s,SandersForPresident
This is a fun video of 58-year old Canova running and looking 20 years younger. Also watch his ever-changing T-shirts.,gideonvwainwright,e90y6yw,SandersForPresident
Ty Tim.  You've been at it fair n square ✌🏻😍  tyvm!,fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e90z8b9,SandersForPresident
"Laughed at this video

It's too fucking goofy.

VOTE CANOVA",MelGibsonDerp,e92irf8,SandersForPresident
Lol it kind of looks like Dead Island 2 trailer. Go Tim Canova,spartan1204,e92zdgf,SandersForPresident
"We need to stop the fearmongering around Constitutional Conventions. If we want to get money out of politics, we’ll probably have to do it via a Constitutional amendment. It doesn’t look like Congress has any intention to pass that amendment, so we’ll probably have to get the states to call for a convention, There’s so much disinformation out there about conventions. People don’t understand that the convention can only craft an amendment that’s in line with the purpose for which the states call the convention. They also forget that any amendment they write would still need to be ratified by 3/4 of the states. 

If you want to learn more about this, check out [Wolf-PAC](https://www.wolf-pac.com), the Super PAC to end all Super PACs.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e9483mu,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e92hppb,SandersForPresident
"I find Gillum endorsement kind of suspicious.  The guy has been flip flopping on M4A.  You would think Ocasio-Cortez, Ben Jealous, and others would get the first endorsements.",isomorphicring,e91q7ui,SandersForPresident
">[Senator Sanders’ Medicare for All plan will help lower costs and expand coverage to more Floridians.](https://andrewgillum.com/issue/healthcare/)  

And [Bernie's been stumping](https://www.reddit.com/r/BernieSanders/wiki/endorsementsbybernie) for him.  

>[Andrew and I are going to help lead the country on Medicare For All.](https://www.tampabay.com/florida-politics/buzz/2018/08/17/bernie-sanders-andrew-gillum-can-transform-florida-politically/)

",Chartis,e91r9nb,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1059074336571748354,Chartis,e91eofj,SandersForPresident
">Congratulations to the young people who are coming together and demanding bold action to move aggressively away from fossil fuels and toward energy efficiency and renewable energy. The Supreme Court allowed their case to proceed. We must act now to end our use of fossil fuels and build a new clean energy future.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157432085047908)",Chartis,e91ki48,SandersForPresident
Pretty bad when you think about it that healthcare is a market.,rkicklig,e91ous6,SandersForPresident
"Politico is preparing a smear campaign against the progressive insurgency of the democratic party come election day.. They know Kara Eastman is a long shot and likely to lose, so they want the entire insurgency to be defined by her campaign. 

They could have chosen Ken Thompson, O'Rourke, Scholten, Bryce, or many other more progressive candidates which have better chances of winning to define the democratic civil war. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e930xa7,SandersForPresident
Honestly even if we win a landslide victory progressives have a lot of hard work left to do. This country desperately needs reform and it won't get done if millions of progressive citizens aren't dragging Congress kicking and screaming into doing it.,hueylongsgiantdong,e8zeu23,SandersForPresident
">Bernie works 12, 13, 14 hours a day. Basically he works, that what he does.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8)    

Help Bernie out. Bringing out votes is even more powerful than voting. Be who is needed.

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)  
* [@billmckibben](https://twitter.com/billmckibben): ""To beat Trump's GOP we have to get our people to vote, and research shows people vote when friends ask them. [This great app makes it so easy to find & ask the ones who need a reminder. Get it & use it](https://votewithme.us/)""
* Be informed & spread the word about [ballot initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)  
* [Ensure your media intake is healthy]  (https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9r9fmv/bernie_has_been_brought_out_some_massive_crowds/e8g91c4/)
* Volunteer for & donate to candidates like those endorsed in the lists on our sidebar-->",Chartis,e8zavud,SandersForPresident
"I voted for Sinema of course, but she’s no progressive. ",calvinguy,e8zeu9o,SandersForPresident
"Off topic but damn, I am jelly of Kirsten's guns!",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8zcqra,SandersForPresident
"The title of the article contains the word “progressive”, and the photo features the most conservative Dem in either chamber.   Has this place adopted VoteBlueNoMatterWho?   

",Theghostofjoehill,e8znmn8,SandersForPresident
 #hireanengineernotatrainconductor,ineeddrugas,e8zerxc,SandersForPresident
"The Guardian isn't actually implying Sinema is a progressive, right?!!!",blitz79,e8zuh49,SandersForPresident
"Don't be surprised if the GOP keeps the house. There's too many schmucks in this country that could give a shit less about voting. I do my part, but it truly makes me sad.",scottfarkus01,e90g4kx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8zg86g,SandersForPresident
Leave your device and vote people. ,GetoffRedditandVote,e8zhckc,SandersForPresident
Hear hear! And here: https://ourrevolution.com/groups,Chartis,e8zjg4g,SandersForPresident
">There is a lot of excitement around voting this year and we can win this election. But if we’re going to win, we have got to do our part by voting and bringing our friends, coworkers, and family members with us. We can have the largest voter turnout in modern American history but we can’t sit this election out.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1995670520487942)",Chartis,e8zko4x,SandersForPresident
fuck her she voted for the wall. that’s some Fascist Collaborator shit.,paulderev,e90331s,SandersForPresident
"Yeah damn, I want those arms.",SEPPUCR0W,e8zmapa,SandersForPresident
"I recently underwent weight loss surgery and now that I'm getting thinner I'm starting to discover just how little arm muscle I have. I've never had thin arms and legs before. Seeing that, as a guy, Kyrsten Sinema's arms are probably bigger than mine, I'm starting to re-think that gym membership. ",Unlucky13,e8zqxav,SandersForPresident
">Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)  

But to answer your question: Nope. /r/BlueMidterm2018 didn't make the cut for our sidebar, but /r/RealBlueMidterm did. And the article goes beyond just a picture:  

[Our Revolution](https://ourrevolution.com/)  
[Justice Democrats](https://www.justicedemocrats.com/candidates/)  
[DSA](http://www.dsausa.org/)  

They're making solid progress. We're honored Bernie trusted us enough to be the sub he crossposted his AMA to yesterday.  

Bernie endorsed Andrew Gillum who the article mentions:  

>campaigned “on a decidedly progressive agenda that includes raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour and a Medicare-for-All, single-payer-style healthcare system”    

Helping get people like him elected puts Bernie, and our political revolution, in a much better position going forward.  


>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)


>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  



>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  ",Chartis,e8zohf8,SandersForPresident
"I came here to express the exact same criticism, but I do concede that we're never going to see progressive policies become law in America if we do not accept moderate Dems from places that a progressive simply cannot get elected. We first must take the House and Senate for the Dems. Then we use our leverage to get the Dems to do as we want. The Dem leadership is well-aware of how strong the progressive wing of the party is now. As long as we don't just go to sleep on November 7th and assume our job here is done, we can make a huge impact on 2020 and beyond. Let's play the long game, shall we?",Unlucky13,e8zqdkm,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8ziba9,SandersForPresident
"Vote for her now.

Protest the shit out of her and primary her in 2024.",AwesomeSaucer9,e90q9n8,SandersForPresident
"What happened in 2009?  I think you know what happened in 2009 - one giveaway to Big Health Insurance, and a historic loss in 2010. 

Look, the DNC does NOT want real progressives.   Hoyer and Pelosi have said that with all their actions and words.  For getting actual progressive legislation passed, you need actual progressives. 

My point:   To call Sinema a progressive, heavily implied in the title and picture combination, is simply untruthful and continues to subvert the word’s real meaning.  ",Theghostofjoehill,e8zr7t5,SandersForPresident
I’m not in Arizona anyway I’m just saying she’s on some fascist bullshit,paulderev,e90qon5,SandersForPresident
"That is what the primaries are for. We have to primary the hell out of them, but in the general what is the alternative? A centrist dem and a republican are not the same. Neither are ideal but one is way worse than the other.",chinchabun,e90i4sg,SandersForPresident
Holy shit. *Not available in your country.* That's awesome.,hokeyphenokey,e91lv78,SandersForPresident
"Please God let this be real, would be one of the greatest things to happen on election night, Ted Cruz is pure evil.",TomBurcher,e90h23r,SandersForPresident
Are these polls taking into account the 400%+ youth turnout that we're seeing?,filmantopia,e90gzl0,SandersForPresident
Holy shit holy shit holy shit,BopTheDrass,e90p3dt,SandersForPresident
"holy shit, is the blue millennial wave really happening? Imagine if it actually ends up being texas that hands the senate to the dems, imagine then at the same time that progressives win the current toss ups in the gubernatorial races which is almost certainly going to happen if dems win the texas senate seat. Holy shit, not only would it would mark the end of Trump's ambitions to become the dictator of the US, but it would mark the rebirth of the social democratic party. ",Zincoshine_2018,e90xyhb,SandersForPresident
" ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ Beto, take all of Doug Jones’ energy ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ",yfern0328,e914soy,SandersForPresident
The latest poll they added is even. On aggregate I'm afraid they still give Cruz an 80% chance of winning. The betting markets are giving Cruz about 66% chance however so that's a bit better. It ain't over til the votes are counted. ,SpaceDetective,e90rb1c,SandersForPresident
"I’ve been watching this race like a hawk and I’m not even Texan. I hope Beto wipes the Senate floor with Cruz, but after hearing the news about the voter machines switching straight-ticket Dem votes to Republicans, I’m a little nervous.",ijustwannanap,e90ynt8,SandersForPresident
In Texas your employer is [legally required ](https://twc.texas.gov/news/efte/voting_time_off.html)to give you two consecutive hours of paid time off to vote if you don’t have two hours available between 7 am and 7 pm on Tuesday. ,allgreen2me,e918kr4,SandersForPresident
"I still doubt Beto will actually win (it's unlikely but possible), but man do I hope his coattails will help many Dems down the ballot.",S3lvah,e92ax98,SandersForPresident
I’m not doubting you at all but I’m curious as to why he is pure Evil? ,Doodoocabinet,e90hbax,SandersForPresident
Probably not as polls general target likely voters but this year I imagine there will be plenty of unlikely voters voting as reflected in the surge of early and young voters.,TomBurcher,e90j2do,SandersForPresident
"no, but the results of the poll would explain the 400% youth voter turnout.",Zincoshine_2018,e90y4h7,SandersForPresident
Could happen but not likely. People actually have to go vote. ,filmantopia,e91artr,SandersForPresident
got a link for the dodgy machines? was it texas?,silvertui,e91zfii,SandersForPresident
"Pure evil is probably a tad too far, let's go with regular evil. Watch his debate with Bernie, he disagrees with everything Bernie advocates for which to me represents progress and good. Therefore in my opinion Ted Cruz is evil for opposing Bernie's ideas especially given that I believe Ted knows better but chooses to do so anyway as a means of pleasing his donors (the koch brothers) in order to ascend to the White House.",TomBurcher,e90itz7,SandersForPresident
"Sure was, here you go: https://www.usnews.com/news/politics/articles/2018-11-02/early-voting-ahead-of-midterms-reveals-vote-related-problems",ijustwannanap,e91zioo,SandersForPresident
voting machines really need to be strait up banned,silvertui,e91zrao,SandersForPresident
"But just so there is no confusion, we’re very much against the right.  The reason both parties have let us down is because both parties are, ultimately, working for the right.  Ask yourself whether you would still feel let down if both parties were working towards reforms for workers, universal healthcare, addressing climate change, and against war.",CinnamonJ,e91664t,SandersForPresident
Right now we need to get the Republicans out of office. We can deal with the rest of this shit later; after we save ourselves from becoming Nazi Germany.,xxoites,e9168v4,SandersForPresident
"Which brand of Nazi Germany? The Democrats actively blame everything on ""foreign actors"" as Hitler did and the Democrats were the ones who signed off on our tax dollars commiting a genocide potentially three times the numbers of the holocaust. They didn't hesitate one second to grant the Cheddar Goblin an unprecedented war budget and are the engineers of the largest prison population in the world.",matterofprinciple,e91d43b,SandersForPresident
"You've been all over this past week trying to talk people out of voting Democrat because they're not progressive enough, as if the other option isn't full blown fascism. 

Now, here you are, repeating alt right propaganda and still pretending to be a liberal. Imo, you're a transparent concern troll, and I'll keep following you and pointing that out.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e925yv2,SandersForPresident
"I welcome the opportunity to educate. You praise the party that began the genocide in Yemen on our tax dollars, which stands to be three times worse than the holocaust. You defend the bastards who greenlit the coup in Honduras that created so inhospitable an environment for its people that the Republican ass hats are now deploying troops to bar them from entering our country. You excuse their duplicity in signing an unprecedented war budget to the cheddar goblin without one seconds hesitation. Its not a question of ""democrats being progressive *enough*"" it is a question of accountability for a brand that is moderately more intelligent than the idiots with the GOP.",matterofprinciple,e929roo,SandersForPresident
"It's not that the Democrats aren't progressive enough, it is that the Democrats aren't progressive at all.",worldfusionwisdom,e949d9j,SandersForPresident
"So how does helping Republicans affect any of those points you just made positively? It doesn't? Oh yeah, that's right...",BERNthisMuthaDown,e92a78z,SandersForPresident
And how does electing Republicans remedy that?,BERNthisMuthaDown,e94repi,SandersForPresident
Voting 3rd party does not elect republicans.,matterofprinciple,e92appc,SandersForPresident
The only one electing republicans around here is you.,matterofprinciple,e94un4d,SandersForPresident
I notice you did not deny that Democrats are not progressive. Thank you.,worldfusionwisdom,e95ibmc,SandersForPresident
Thank you. Voting third party does not increase the Republican vote total at all.,worldfusionwisdom,e949f68,SandersForPresident
"[Unless you were already voting Republican, yes it does.](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spoiler_effect) 

You can keep appealing to emotions, and I'll keep treating you with objective reality and the immutable laws of mathematics.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e93ah37,SandersForPresident
noU.gif,BERNthisMuthaDown,e9518ac,SandersForPresident
The alternative are fascists. In what world are the Republicans more progressive than the Dems?,BERNthisMuthaDown,e95jfrt,SandersForPresident
"Mathematics? Did you even read your own article?

>The spoiler effect is the effect of vote splitting between **candidates or ballot questions[n 1] who often have similar ideologies**. One spoiler candidate's presence in the election draws votes from a major candidate with similar politics thereby causing a strong opponent of both or several to win.[1][2][3][4] The minor candidate causing this effect is referred to as a spoiler.[n 2] However, short of any electoral fraud, this presents no grounds for a legal challenge

All you're really doing sobbing spoiler effect is establishing that this brand you are so loyal too is *so* weak, tone deaf, entitled or corrupt that they can lose votes to so much more than just republicans. 

If anything, Democrats are the spoiler effect of evolving past the two party system, promising a place for the GOP while moving further to the right themselves. You're arguing for 80s republican policies at the *best* of candidates, at the *worst* you're apologizing for the Henry Kissingers of our country and you're doing it by saying that Dems don't have to campaign, compete or earn our votes. In that regard *you're* the one helping the GOP and their policies as so much of the US in this digital age has been made aware of the duplicitous liars in the Clintons, the Schumers, Pelosis and even Obamas. Of course the Republicans lie to their constituents too, unfortunately for you, people on the left are largely better educated than those on the right. The left also doesn't benefit from a voter base of fundamentally religious people that the Republicans can depend on. Democrats provenly try to appeal to Republican voters over returning to their roots and trying to bring in progressives and as has been proven, voters on the right will go full ""good christian republican"" everytime. To hope to compete with the right you demand real progressives behave as ignorant, lowering the bar so much that ass hats like Trump and his entire cabinet are possible. If your lauded party actually campaigned on something instead of campaigning on what they're not we wouldn't be having this discussion. But instead you now have to ignore the millions of voters affected by NAFTA, for profit, burgeoning prison systems, for profit, unaffordable healthcare, poor wages, crumbling infrastructure at the misuse of our tax dollars used to stage coups (like Honduras) or assassinate foreign dignitaries causing open slave markets (like Libya) or thereby contribite to the rise of groups such as Daesh (like Iraq) or commit genocide (like Yemen).

The more votes go third party, the further left the Dems have to move, the less of a foundation the Right has and the better balanced and humane our political system will be. You don't care what state this country is in. You just want to hurt your opponents feelings.",matterofprinciple,e93ohxw,SandersForPresident
">So at this point, it's clear to me that you are not debating in good faith.",matterofprinciple,e953ggf,SandersForPresident
"In what world are the Democrats progressive? 

You in the U.S., you have no idea what fascism actually is. Here in Spain we know first-hand what fascism is so we do not use it as a gimmick to scare people in political ploys.

Socialists are the real alternative to the fascist major parties in the U.S. Vote for a real alternative!
",elprofdesion,e95jwhn,SandersForPresident
"> The more votes go third party, the further left the Dems have to move, the less of a foundation the Right has and the better balanced and humane our political system will be.

So why aren't the Dems Communists by now?",BERNthisMuthaDown,e93qboc,SandersForPresident
"See, it's not just you. I call this agitprop bullshit whenever I see it. 

We're voting, shhhh. Give it up. You failed.
",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95jmpp,SandersForPresident
"Ha! Thanks for subbing, its good to hear from people outside the US for exactly the points you make.",matterofprinciple,e95uoib,SandersForPresident
"> Socialists are the real alternative to the fascist major parties in the U.S. Vote for a real alternative!

We must have a different voting system here because voting for Socialists only helps Republicans in a winner take all, first past the post system.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95lezt,SandersForPresident
Name one communist third party candidate.,matterofprinciple,e93qq5a,SandersForPresident
Straight up gibberish.,matterofprinciple,e95x0qq,SandersForPresident
"I notice you still did not deny that Democrats are not progressive. You keep repeating your diversionary attack on Republicans. Funny, that's what Republicans do too: never respond, only distract with smears. ",worldfusionwisdom,e95t0ib,SandersForPresident
"We do not have different system, we have different people. We are not slaves to a two party fraud. We think for ourselves.",elprofdesion,e95vgsk,SandersForPresident
"You said that voting for 3rd party spoilers, like in 2000 &2016, would move the DNC to the left, but it's had the opposite effect so I was asking why your theory doesn't match reality. 

If your hypothesis is correct, explain the shifting of the Over tonight window to the right over the last 40 years...",BERNthisMuthaDown,e9447f4,SandersForPresident
"Still waiting for your master plan that explains how not helping Democrats somehow doesn't help Republicans. And somehow makes Democrats more progressive.

The floor is yours.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95xi88,SandersForPresident
"Who? Establishment leadership or the progressive caucus? Are we talkin about the platform or the people? Which people? 

I am still waiting for someone to explain to me how helping Republicans benefits Progressives. How?",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95wq3p,SandersForPresident
"That doesn't change the immutable laws of mathematics, jefe. We have to win the game by the rules as they are written if we want to change them.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95w7sg,SandersForPresident
"Son, you're speaking pure gibberish at this point. Are you equating Leftist policies to communism?",matterofprinciple,e94e18f,SandersForPresident
"The impetus is on you to explain how voting democrats who enable republicans at every turn (unprecedented war budget, Honduran coup, for profit healthcare, education and prisons) is of any benefit to the country. Or have you given up on stalking me?",matterofprinciple,e95yg5w,SandersForPresident
Voting third party does not help republicans.,matterofprinciple,e95xzrs,SandersForPresident
"Ah, so you admit that the Democratic establishment leadership is not progressive. Good, you are not completely hopeless.

As /u/matterofprinciple has said multiple times: Voting third party does not help republicans.

I will add: Voting for Democrats does not benefit Progressives. Enabling the anti=Progressive Democratic Establishment is what benefits Republicans.",worldfusionwisdom,e967edf,SandersForPresident
"Then you are a slave, and worse, a willing slave.",elprofdesion,e95wfsq,SandersForPresident
">immutable laws of mathematics

>We have to win the game by the rules as they are written if we want to change them.

>We have our marching orders everyone! Divide by zero!

Establishment Democrats ain't gonna give ya ranked voting.",matterofprinciple,e95wl9u,SandersForPresident
"No, I was using hyperbole to mock your thesis, but you're oblivious so I'll keep it simple this time: when did your assertion ever happen?",BERNthisMuthaDown,e94nz8y,SandersForPresident
"No it isn't. This is S4P, and progressive Sanders' supporters already understand the strategy. No one is buying that you're one of us. 

",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95zsx0,SandersForPresident
Indeed. Voting Establishment Dems *does* help Establishment Republicans. They both have an *E* next to their name.,matterofprinciple,e96a9e9,SandersForPresident
"Or a citizen. Yeah, we're different.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95xc2p,SandersForPresident
"> Establishment Democrats ain't gonna give ya ranked voting.

We're not asking. Progressives have an extensive agenda, and every failure on the party's part will be on the itinerary in 2020, but there's no point in taking over a minority party. 

2 more years of unchecked GOP control is a greater threat to Progressives than a clearly biased party leadership.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95x3s7,SandersForPresident
Do you feel more like you do now than you did a little while ago? Have you stopped beating your mom? Why didn't you help Hillary more in 2016?,matterofprinciple,e94om1b,SandersForPresident
Who are you talking about? Literally everyone here is calling you out on your bullshit and you're frantically questioning everyone elses grasp on reality? Get your priorities straight. Go do your civic duty and vote. This sub will be here to shut your propoganda down whenever.,matterofprinciple,e960eks,SandersForPresident
"Yep. Two heads, one monster.",worldfusionwisdom,e96xhyq,SandersForPresident
"You're not ""asking"" for ranked choice voting? You talk about those ""evil *fascist* (clearly you don't know what that word means) republicans"" and how we have to get *them* out of office simply because you prefer diet pepsi over coke.

No one else in this thread *asks* politicians for anything. They are *public servants*. We *tell* them. Do you have any idea how differently this country would look today had there been ranked choice voting in 2016?

You're sobbing about the GOP and bowing to them at the same time, Sophy.",matterofprinciple,e95z6ws,SandersForPresident
"So at this point, it's clear to me that you are not debating in good faith. Readers can decide for themselves.

See you in the next thread!",BERNthisMuthaDown,e94rosn,SandersForPresident
"Seriously. People losing their shit arguing how much better things are when the pendulum swings *their* way, like maybe you should see to the giant blade hovering above you thats creeping incrementally closer.",matterofprinciple,e9772qx,SandersForPresident
"Keep changing subjects, my man. Your schizophrenia really makes my case for me.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95zbny,SandersForPresident
"You're turning out to shame everyone else, why didn't you help Hillary more, bro? She lost because of you and now we have to hear you blame literally everything else and somehow hold us accountable for your failures?

Lets talk ""debating in good faith"". I write a comprehensive explanation as to how voting third party doesn't elect Republicans *repeatedly*. You double down, disregard my arguments, the facts I link there in, disregard the points I make to how faulty your own are and then, in an obviously frustrated pinch drop reference to *Communism*? Just like any corporate DINO, you refuse to talk policy until your backed into a corner and then sob and wail about **COMMUNISM** **RUSSIA** **SUPER PREDATORS**!

 >Readers can decide for themselves.

No ironic ""lol"" here. This is legitimately depressing. Read the room, son.",matterofprinciple,e94uy6u,SandersForPresident
"As an academic, I have studied politics for a long time, and the more I study it the more cynical I get about people. It is worse than sports rivalries in being substanceless Us versus Them.",worldfusionwisdom,e97zsrx,SandersForPresident
We're talking ranked choice voting. You said you're not asking for it. Pitiful.,matterofprinciple,e95zo6d,SandersForPresident
"I can't help if abandoning Labor and the working class doomed Dems in 2016, but that's no excuse to flush the whole country.

I'm going to vote, now. Good luck with your protest or whatever.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95js40,SandersForPresident
"No I didn't, idiot. You're going off on tangents and I'm ignoring them. Liberals don't spaz like you're doing. 

You're probably a neckbearded  neocon LARPing as a libtard, tbh. For instance, for a liberal, you sure do know a lot of right wing talking points. And you seem to believe them.

It's okay. 

Bart_atleastyoutried.jpg",BERNthisMuthaDown,e9607vz,SandersForPresident
"Seriously, what in the fuck are you talking about, child?

Spare yourself the trouble next time, your propoganda is not welcome here, as is evidenced by everyone that has responded to you.",matterofprinciple,e95v0lp,SandersForPresident
">Establishment Democrats ain't gonna give ya ranked voting.

>We're not asking.",matterofprinciple,e960lc8,SandersForPresident
"> Spare yourself the trouble next time, your propoganda is not welcome here, as is evidenced by everyone that has responded to you.

Objective reality isn't a popularity contest. I've given you numerous opportunities to present a single real world example of you your strategy working but you continue to deflect and attack me personally because your argument is wholly without merit.

We're voting now. Give it up.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95wi20,SandersForPresident
"Who is this ""we"" you keep mentioning? Theres only you talking straight up gibberish while claiming ""immutable mathematics"" while claiming voting third party magically elects republicans. You then go on to say the only way to change the system is to do what the system tells you to. Everyone else gives historical, international and political examples and you start ranting about communism. You gonna go do your civic duty or are you just gonna keep beating off? Cause my ballots already been counted.",matterofprinciple,e95xjwv,SandersForPresident
"Where? Source? You and your alts? LoL, unless you're all downvoting me immediately for my responses to you, you're just a sad little troll throwing a tantrum.

You really expect me to believe that several like-minded people are hitting F5 to downvote my replies 12 comments in a thread with something like 40 comments?

Whatever you say, my guy...",BERNthisMuthaDown,e95z7io,SandersForPresident
"I have no idea why Sanders endorsed a pro-corporate democrat without any demands. [Whitmer has close ties to Blue Cross](https://theintercept.com/2018/07/18/michigan-governor-race-gretchen-whitmer-blue-cross/).  At least with Clinton, Sanders got the democratic platform and some more progressive policy proposals (mostly symbolic gestures).

But I suppose this is the ""vote blue no matter who"" mentality that all democratic voters must ritually take part in. This ""blue wave"" is going to backfire if we have no mechanism of holding them accountable and think just being a democrat is good enough.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e931tm4,SandersForPresident
My hope is that enough progressives win to caucus in congress and give real voice and power to progressive concerns.,ekbowler,e94cmz6,SandersForPresident
">If Democrats take the House of Representatives, the next chairman of the Armed Services Committee, which oversees military affairs and defense spending, will likely be Rep. Adam Smith, a hawkish Democrat from Washington state who represents a district in the Seattle-area, where important elements of the military-industrial complex are concentrated.

>But standing in his way is Sarah Smith, a working class activist and democratic socialist, hoping to channel progressive momentum to dislodge the incumbent lawmaker in an unusual Democrat vs. Democrat general election matchup.",lovely_sombrero,e913ub7,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e90if5s,SandersForPresident
"The only scientists that the GOP cares about are geologists (oil) and chemists (chemical industry and oil).

As far as the GOP is concerned any other scientist has a ""liberal agenda"".",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8z6jz3,SandersForPresident
">The Trump administration cannot and will not get away with its attacks on the transgender community. This is an issue of basic dignity and human rights and we will stand with our trans brothers and sisters.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157428093817908)",Chartis,e8z4rpi,SandersForPresident
So is the proposal to make gender the same thing as sex? Is it trying to change the legal definition of the word?,miscmouse,e8zhvmt,SandersForPresident
"If the GOP has ignored 90+% of scientists’ warnings on climate change and thousands of law professors’ (and the ABA’s) rebuke against Kavanaugh, not to mention the CBO report against the tax bill, I doubt these scientists will stop Trump - if anything, they’ll encourage him. ",PresidentWordSalad,e8zo17a,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but what do scientists, the true engine of the economy and technological breakthrough, know about anything?!?",THEMACGOD,e8z9t71,SandersForPresident
Doesn't really change my opinion of Sanders because I supported him before but it's still a cool thing for him to say.  ,armigerLux,e9027v7,SandersForPresident
"It's trying to change legal definitions in a broad suite of policies to revoke civil rights in a way that would harm the lives of many under the smokescreen of ""being grounded in science."":  

>A series of decisions by the Obama administration loosened the legal concept of gender in federal programs, including in education and health care, recognizing gender largely as an individual’s choice and not determined by the sex assigned at birth... 

>Now the Department of Health and Human Services is spearheading an effort to establish a legal definition of sex under Title IX, the federal civil rights law that bans gender discrimination in education programs that receive government financial assistance... 

>The department argued in its memo that key government agencies needed to adopt an explicit and uniform definition of gender as determined “on a biological basis that is clear, grounded in science, objective and administrable.” The agency’s proposed definition would define sex as either male or female, unchangeable, and determined by the genitals that a person is born with...  

>The new definition would essentially eradicate federal recognition of the estimated 1.4 million Americans who have opted to recognize themselves — surgically or otherwise — as a gender other than the one they were born into.

>“This takes a position that what the medical community understands about their patients — what people understand about themselves — is irrelevant because the government disagrees,” said Catherine E. Lhamon, who led the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights in the Obama administration and helped write transgender guidance that is being undone.

>The move would be the most significant of a series of maneuvers, large and small, to exclude the population from civil rights protections and roll back the Obama administration’s more fluid recognition of gender identity. The Trump administration has sought to bar transgender people from serving in the military and has legally challenged civil rights protections for the group embedded in the nation’s health care law.

>Several agencies have withdrawn Obama-era policies that recognized gender identity in schools, prisons and homeless shelters. The administration even tried to remove questions about gender identity from a 2020 census survey and a national survey of elderly citizens.

>For the last year, the Department of Health and Human Services has privately argued that the term “sex” was never meant to include gender identity or even homosexuality, and that the lack of clarity allowed the Obama administration to wrongfully extend civil rights protections to people who should not have them.

-[New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/21/us/politics/transgender-trump-administration-sex-definition.html)",Chartis,e8ziwhw,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/VanessaAdiaTX12/status/1058828397575618560,Chartis,e90obva,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e90osdc,SandersForPresident
">No matter what lies Republicans are spreading on the campaign trail, they cannot ignore the truth: last year they tried to throw 23 million Americans off of health insurance and only failed by one vote, and have been working for years to remove protections for people with pre-existing conditions and to slash Medicare and Medicaid.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157430400837908)",Chartis,e904w1n,SandersForPresident
"BlueZen10 mostly posts on r/politics and #resistance subs. This individual had no presence whatsoever in r/sandersforpresident during the 2016 primary.

Just in case their reactionary views expressed here weren't already enough evidence that this individual is just a troll and not actually leftist nor a Sanders supporter.",datatitian,e8zpuv2,SandersForPresident
Ugh I used to work at Honeywell (people call it Honeyhell for a reason). What they're doing to their workers doesn't surprise me at all.,goodviolet,e90v8w6,SandersForPresident
"These people were too stupid to listen to us when we told them what he was like, even when presented with facts. So I don't feel that bad for them. Plus if he had given them what they wanted even though he continued screwing other people, they would've been happy, so fuck them and their ""I got mine"" attitude.  ",BlueZen10,e8zoas8,SandersForPresident
"Totally agree, they deserve the representation they are getting",bobjohnsonmilw,e90mvon,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): October 22-November 2, 2018 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e8yx1p8,SandersForPresident
"I voted for Beto and agree that many Democrats pander to the rich (Hillary cough cough), but I don’t think that’s why workers are now Republican. It’s not like Republicans now act on behalf of workers, they just make them think they do and do the opposite. What the Republicans have been really good at in the past three decades is making people think they should care about two issues: abortion and the second amendment. One issue for men and another for women. At some point they realized that these issues could be a carrot on a stick to distract their base while they fuck them in the ass.",satanicmajesty,e8z637c,SandersForPresident
This is why we need a new party to replace the Dems.,AlfredJFuzzywinkle,e8z96tk,SandersForPresident
"You know, I still don't think I've seen a public endorsement of Beto from Bernie. Has that happened, and if not, why not?",TheEngine,e8z6v7e,SandersForPresident
"You won't see this on /r/politics, even though they seem to love Beo O'Rourke, too.",johnmountain,e8z3ddy,SandersForPresident
"Democrats always flirt with left ideology.  Always talk in General terms and no details.  Invest in the rural communities?  

How? 

Had to wiki it: 

The **Rural Electrification Act of 1936**  provided federal loans for the installation of [electrical distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electrical_distribution) systems to serve isolated [rural areas of the United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rural_America). 

And Democrats are willing to pretend they are against their own party. Trump basically won because he talked down on the Republican Party. Oldest trick in Politics.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",broksonic,e8z93lt,SandersForPresident
"I hope I'm wrong (I've been getting really tired of hoping!), but Beto O'Rourke seems like the new version of the Corporate Democrat. ",DritanKadiu,e8z890p,SandersForPresident
The Dems crawled into bed with corporations and became Republican-lites a long time ago.,subarutim,e8zlv3w,SandersForPresident
he's right... but then why does he pal around with chuck schumer in new york to embrace big money?,thesilverpig,e8yno89,SandersForPresident
"""We gave you a tax cut!!!!"" (ignoring, of course, all the deductions taken away - like the deduction for property tax, for state and local taxes. Effectively raising taxes on those workers)",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8z6fuk,SandersForPresident
"I think your analysis is missing something.  Being for workers and unions is what got a lot of working class folk into the Democratic Party.  They might not agree with other issues but they knew that without jobs that paid well the rest was secondary.  A lot of those folks moved left on those issues slowly by being exposed to the positive arguments for them.

When the party abandoned them then the thing that tied them to the Democrats was gone and that left them vulnerable to being radicalized about abortion and the second amendment.

Being for workers overcame those workers conserative tendencies.  But when that goes away they naturally drift towards the GOP.",ManlyBeardface,e8z93hw,SandersForPresident
Republicans are good at making dumb voters believe POC and the gay agenda are to blame for all their problems,happysisyphos,e8zasib,SandersForPresident
"""Grub first, then ethics.""

Except the democraps offer only finger wagging ethics.  ",scamp_19,e8zjk71,SandersForPresident
"I think there have been a lot of mixed messages from his campaign on where he stands as a leftist. This video is one thing. But then he also appears on the list of third way Democrats, who are specifically anti-left. So, while he is absolutely better than Cruz, and I'm sure Bernie really wants him to win, he also just seems to endorse candidates who really line up politically with him.

Edit: list of ""new democrats"" which is synonymous with third way Democrats. It's the most uninspiring list of democrats. Maybe Beto being on the list doesn't mean anything. But it does look bad.
 https://newdemocratcoalition-himes.house.gov/members",zangorn,e8zb4mk,SandersForPresident
"Because Beto is still on the is he legit test. Will he be another democrat who is all talk and no walk. Will he once he is in power become another Obama. 

&#x200B;",broksonic,e8z9dam,SandersForPresident
"Cause Beto isn't really progressive. He was rejected by Justice Democrats cause he wouldn't actually support M4A (Beto has given it lip service but has gone mealmouth on all the legislation similar to Anthony Rendon the democrat who killed single payer in California)

Also Beto takes money from fossil fuel lobbyists and JP Morgan bankers in New York.

Obviously he is better than Ted Cruz.... In fact, I'd say Beto appears better than a fair number of corporate democrats... but Beto is no one's progressive. ",thesilverpig,e8z7ya3,SandersForPresident
"> How?

Beto pretty clearly states that you expand broadband...",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8z9a2r,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8ze9sc,SandersForPresident
Source?,Hodorgasm,e8yo1g3,SandersForPresident
Calm down there China.,thepacifistcrusader,e8z1gfz,SandersForPresident
"Citation needed.

And none of that right wing propaganda stuff. Show me photos from reputable sources of Beto hanging out with Chuck fuckin' Schumer.

Edited to remove gratuitous insult.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8z6ctn,SandersForPresident
"This really isn't fair. Obama had to deal with a Republican Congress for the majority of his stay in office. It's not Obama's fault that he was all talk and no walk, it's the voters fault for voting him in and then voting in a Republican Congress. This shit seems to happen every fucking Presidency. Because people are far to impatient about how long it takes for better and bigger change.

So we vote for a Democrat President, after 2 years not a ton has changed, so we vote in a Republican Congress. After 2 years of that usually the incumbent President wins by default, but everyone somehow still votes Republican elsewhere. Then we vote in a Republican President, after 2 years nothing has changed, so we vote in a Democratic Congress. Etc. etc. 

Politics is fucking impossible because of the party line. Republicans all vote together, Democrats all vote together and there's never a large enough majority to truly change anything. 

It's what's broken in our political spectrum and it's why conservatives still think trickle down economics work. Because they've never seen liberal financial beliefs have a real chance more than a few years. And they forget all too quickly how fast the economy usually collapses under Presidents like Reagan and Bush 2.0. ",Uther-Lightbringer,e8zbls8,SandersForPresident
"Having trouble finding your contribution claims. 
https://www.opensecrets.org/members-of-congress/summary?cid=N00033540",dbzmah,e8z9d0q,SandersForPresident
Can we have some sources for your statements? ,cport1,e8z8wp5,SandersForPresident
The internet monopolies are already expanding Internet to rural communities. They will do that with or without Betos Help. They wont let customers get away from them. ,broksonic,e8zeuqq,SandersForPresident
"The internet monopolies are going to do that anyway. They will not let potential customers get away. 
They are already expanding. With the help of Beto or without his help. ",broksonic,e8zc5pv,SandersForPresident
So disingenuous of you to say it like that. Those donations are from individuals not corporations in those industries. Do you know how many people are employed by the oil/gas industry in Texas??,rangel904,e8zemo1,SandersForPresident
"likely this

https://www.texastribune.org/2018/01/26/republicans-pile-charles-schumer-over-harvey/",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8z725h,SandersForPresident
You mean Russia ,Gloopyglorp,e8z29e7,SandersForPresident
"this might be what they're talking about

https://www.texastribune.org/2018/01/26/republicans-pile-charles-schumer-over-harvey/",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8z71i6,SandersForPresident
"https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=76&v=O-u8euGUgFI

From Jordan Cheriton... nothing right wing bout that.",thesilverpig,e8z7fyp,SandersForPresident
"You correct that was the Democratic Propaganda Apology. He went back on his words. The Republicans did not make him with his own words go against himself. [https://youtu.be/TOh1I28HbAA](https://youtu.be/TOh1I28HbAA)

Less War was one of his policies. And helped Saudi Arabia with its war on Yemen. And Trump is continuing it. Supporting and ordering Drone Strikes without any due process. No court. No jury. And he went to Law school. Clinton and Obama supported the coup of Democratically elected Honduras President Selaya. And the repercussions are the caravans we looking at and fueling the Far Right.

Said if I remember correctly we must not just plan for Wall Street but help main street. Did he support Occupy Wallstreet? He supported Wall Street when he said they are too big to fail. And basically rewarded them for almost causing an economic crash. Corporate record profits during Obama. 

It is a fair comparison because Beto is saying good things. But it is nothing new we have not heard before by Democrats. We know they will even talk down on their own party. like Trump did. He humiliated most of the Republican Party and then the Republican Party funded his campaign into a billion or so. ",broksonic,e8ze8wa,SandersForPresident
"https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=76&v=O-u8euGUgFI

as for his Justice democrat rejection, it's in a Secular Talk video. Kyle explains they rejected Beto cause he wouldn't back John Conyers bill and said that Beto refused to back it for technical reasons (or something to that effect).

",thesilverpig,e8z94d7,SandersForPresident
As someone who has spent the last 10 years in rural Texas paying out the ass for shit speeds and has worked for an ISP I've never laughed so hard at something that wasn't a joke. ,Conman93,e8zglwc,SandersForPresident
"ohh I didn't know that, what do I know. I'm not from the US and saw what opensecrets showed",sasiralla,e8zius2,SandersForPresident
"I actually got it from Jordan Cheriton but I can't find the written report, just [the video he made talking about the written report.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=76&v=O-u8euGUgFI)

I hate that many at S4P are putting their hands on their ears over Beto O'Rourke (though in all likelihood it's paid operatives that joined us after the page was shut down to disrupt left organization and funnel energy into mainstream democrats so they can run the same pay to play they've been running.)

either way we can all agree Beto is better than Cruz, and we should be able to be honest and admit he isn't a progressive. If folks want to push the narrative that Beto is a progressive then they are doing a disservice to the left by muddling our actual values and they are.",thesilverpig,e8z8etj,SandersForPresident
You mean US of A,IWGPJapon,e8z6dfo,SandersForPresident
"He might mean that. I dunno. Seems to me that a fund raiser is hardly what one could consider having ""palled around"" with Chuck Schumer. Unfortunately, that's how the game is played currently. I'm all in favor of removing money from the political process, but until we do fund raisers are going to happen. 
",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8z853r,SandersForPresident
Your source is some dumb video with 3k views?...,cport1,e8zs91q,SandersForPresident
"He said he is going to expand broadband not breakup the Internet Monopolies. You will still have to pay whatever they decide to set the price. 
They want the Nanny Government to give them more money to expand broadband. You know the Nanny Government that never has any money for people who actually need the help. 
U.S. Senate Allocates $425 Million for Rural Broadband Expansionhttp://www.govtech.com/fs/internet/US-Senate-Allocates-425-Million-for-Rural-Broadband-Expansion.html

FCC takes next step toward 2 billion to expand rural broadband
https://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-takes-next-step-toward-2-billion-rural-broadband-expansion

Congress prepares to knockdown barriers to broadband expansion
On the heels of President Trump’s orders to expand broadband access, Congress is preparing to follow suit with an aggressive push to make high-speed Internet service more readily available in rural America.
https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2018/01/11/congress-prepares-knock-down-barriers-broadband-expansion-rural-america/1020426001/

So Beto is talking about a future plan that will happen with or without him. 

",broksonic,e8zi1px,SandersForPresident
No problem. If you dig a little further it shows the break downs between pacs and individuals. Here in the US (not sure if required) on the donation form it asks for your employer/field. Hope this helps you in the future!,rangel904,e8zjeij,SandersForPresident
"I think Beto is pretty fantastic. As progressive as he is now, he can always become more progressive as the nation becomes moreso too.

His official final on record stance on Medicare For All is that it's the best idea he's seen for how to accomplish every citizen of our nation having healthcare. He's open to other ideas but he hasn't heard anything better.

As you stated, he is clearly better than any Republican and especially Cruz, since they believe Medicare For All would usher in communism. So why people who are supposed to be on Bernie's team here on the left will attack Beto for not being more progressive makes no sense to me. Follow Bernie's footsteps, don't endorse him if it's not enough for you, but don't go negative about the guy.

His response to a constituent about the difficult realities behind why black Americans are protesting and that he can think of nothing more American than protesting as the kneeling players have done was one of the best responses on this issue.

We're here right now commenting on a post which details Beto's criticizing of the Democratic Party. How many other candidates are you heading this from other than Bernie?

He's a damn good candidate who will help push much of the progressive agenda, from climate change to criminal justice reform to healthcare as a right and more. If you don't think he's that good, that's your right. But coming after him or Gillum for not being strongly enough in support of Medicare For All yet strikes me more like the negativity that would be coming from trolls or paid operatives. Didn't downvote you, but it is actually your stance that I find a disservice to the left by putting an impediment to our progress of getting as many progressive-as-possible candidates into office with each election. Obviously we want to go even more progressive in 2020, and more progressive again in 2022, but Beto as one recipient of ""not left enough"" complaints is a terrific candidate in 2018 and should get your support because it's not gonna be fucking easy to take out Ted Cruz in Texas.",RanLearns,e90b7b0,SandersForPresident
"Jordan Chariton is a reputable progressive journalist who has done a lot of fantastic reporting on DAPL, Flint's water crises, and DNC corruption. You seem to be attacking the source cause you have no argument though.",thesilverpig,e90hpff,SandersForPresident
"Cool, so should I vote for Cruz?  Seems like an odd time to be discouraging Texas Dem voters.  Beto is clearly the best choice I have had in a long time. Do you live in a liberal state where progressive candidates are a dime a dozen?  I understand your argument, but I don't understand the motive. ",Conman93,e8zlgms,SandersForPresident
A YouTube video is not a source,cport1,e90hwig,SandersForPresident
"Nah, Cruz is a far right fanatic. Who has said to carpet bomb Iran. It was so extreme that even Fox News invited him, so they can soften those words. 

He is smarter than Trump. And thus more dangerous.

Now about discouraging Texas Democrats. 

Why is it that when we criticize Republicans, Democrats or the biggest one the U. S.?

We our thought to say to others who criticize you are discouraging Republicans or Democrates. And when we call out truths about the Country they are Anti-American.

That is a Totalitarian Notion. The Soviet era they called the dissidents Anti Soviets. Dictatorships They are Anti (insert the country) Nationalism and fascism tactics

The United States if you criticize corporate power or concentrated power you are against the people.  What the fuck does State power and the few elites have to do with most of the people. They shield themselves by making it mean all. 

In a free society that notion should be ridiculous.

Is it discouraging to Democrats that you would want them to live to the ideals they so say they uphold? Is it Discouraging to Republicans to want for them to do what Jesus would do. But give long prison terms and no second chances. Care so much about life to pass legislation to ban abortions but never say you know maybe a small tax just for the fosters kids so they can have a roof on their head. To call out the Country when it does not live up to the ideals it was founded on?

I live in Texas. So I know. ",broksonic,e8zwrfh,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/mluckovichajc/status/1058430646274715648,Chartis,e90q3rn,SandersForPresident
"Georgia 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](http://elections.sos.ga.gov/Elections/advancedVotingInfo.do): October 15-November 2, 2018 

[General Election](https://www.mvp.sos.ga.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e909b0w,SandersForPresident
">Bernie works 12, 13, 14 hours a day. Basically he works, that what he does.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8)    

Help Bernie out if you can. Bringing out votes is even more powerful than voting. Be who is needed.

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* Spread the word about [ballot initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)",Chartis,e8xsbza,SandersForPresident
Imagine how pissed off the baby boomers would be,ShelSilverstain,e8wzkgj,SandersForPresident
It's your government if you just decide to participate.,xxoites,e8wzd5y,SandersForPresident
"In other news water is wet. 

This isn't that hard, if 100% of people under 35 voted, there'd be like 3 Republicans in all of politics. We'd probably have a lot more independents and likely a couple Green Party candidates as well.",Uther-Lightbringer,e8wt06x,SandersForPresident
I take issue with the a priori assumption that merely voting for a politician and getting him elected will actually get you what he/she promised.,gargoyle_mayonnaise,e8x5byy,SandersForPresident
See you all at the polls on the 6th :),Silas06,e8y1sdn,SandersForPresident
"This assumes that all young people want the same things, that people in generational cohorts all want the same things. Which is a pretty absurd assumption to make.",1SweetChuck,e8xa6jg,SandersForPresident
"Whew! Democracy is the best, popular revolt is built in. As long as we stick together and agree on stuff.",mandy009,e8xjt6v,SandersForPresident
"I mean I don't understand, why don't young people just show up and vote for green party/independent either, that will send a msg to Dem party? what's the point of not voting",sasiralla,e8wyw56,SandersForPresident
"Ah yes, because we all know how reliable the Democrats are in ensuring promises. We need to start blaming who we vote for and not the voters for low turnout.",steveshotz,e8xbzk2,SandersForPresident
Exactly!! Vote!,skellener,e8xt3il,SandersForPresident
"Take it over and then drive it into the ground.

Then realize that you can only have all that if someone else is forced to pay for it. ",NEVERDOUBTED,e8xtoar,SandersForPresident
Youth early voting in Texas is up 500% so that's a good sign... although you have to keep in mind there are a number of young people in Texas who are still backwards and vote the same way mommy and daddy do. Most of my friends are Ted Cruz supporters... 🤮,DakThatAssUp,e8xy55m,SandersForPresident
I think you need to think about how that’s all gonna be payed for...,Mr-Dimick,e8y5dll,SandersForPresident
"If I remember the statistics correctly, only 17% of Americans under 30 vote. It shouldn’t be a surprise that public education is underfunded, higher education results in untenable debt, and an increase in minimum wage has gotten little traction. Also, younger adults are overwhelmingly in support of gun control, reproductive rights, equal rights, income equality, single payer healthcare, and a political system that isn’t driven by corporations. Even doubling turnout for this population would change the political landscape. Medicare, Social Security, limited estate tax, etc. are still intact because old folks vote!",Kittens_not_biscuits,e8y6whb,SandersForPresident
"It’s not that simple, unfortunately. You actually have to get people to agree on these things. ",KierkeBored,e8yat82,SandersForPresident
"I have a small business. My morning crew is 3 22-25 year olds. We talk about how ridiculous republicans are you know the typical liberal shit. Well I’m closing Tuesday morning so they and I can go out and get our votes in. I asked them if they are actually going to go, and they are all going to a concert Monday night and decided they would rather sleep in since I’m closing half the day. I almost shat a brick. I have no hope for these kids who constantly complain and want things to change but when it comes down to it they can’t be bothered.  They are too focused on the here and now. I know it’s not all young people but I fear it’s enough to lose to the retirees who have only their own interests at heart. ",jaded1982,e8yjrzc,SandersForPresident
"That's if younger people all shared the same opinion, however like baby boomers the youth are devided. ",havoc313,e8yp5e6,SandersForPresident
"PSA

When the Democrats take control of Congress, even if it's only one house, they will also control OVERSIGHT committees and the INVESTIGATIVE committees, and they will have subpoena power to find out exactly what Trump, the unindicted CO-CONSPIRATOR in a federal crime, and Republicans have been up to,

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

If you want to see what is in Mueller's report, the Republicans aren't going to tell you, but the Democrats, even with only one house, will be able to answer all of your questions.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

this is a referendum on Trump, and his policies, and if we beat them badly enough, the remaining Republicans will turn against Trump, and we could impeach him.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

And if all we do is take control of one house of Congress, we can make Trump's last two years in office really, really, really sh*ty.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

[ Statistically speaking, and the Republicans know this, in a high turnout election the Democrats win.  Make sure you are registered because the Republicans have been deregistering people all over the place, and ](https://www.vote.org/am-i-registered-to-vote/)

##VOTE##

**VOTE, if for no other reason than because nobody in America should ever be considered too poor to live.**
Cut & Paste and Pass it on.",oldest_boomer_1946,e8z25m7,SandersForPresident
It's funny that people think millenials all want exactly the same thing. Juat like other generations we're on both sides. ,Stillallergic,e8xk21a,SandersForPresident
"Got to have the candidates willing to appeal to those issues.

Lots, and lots, of democratic candidates aren't on board. And lots of them get re-elected all the time.",jeradj,e8xt1lf,SandersForPresident
Largest demographic (18-35) but unlike any other age demographic these voters favor Democrats opposed to the GOP by more than double when they vote.,rumblith,e8xxw5z,SandersForPresident
How many candidates actually support that shit?,Maxplatypus,e8y09w9,SandersForPresident
It’s your government if you just realize that we need to revolutionize.,chikendagr8,e8yf3p3,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ylw1t,SandersForPresident
"Chimerical if you don’t publicize the horrid ubiquity  of proprietary voting machines, which he didn’t ",HijackerPassport_CIA,e8yobbl,SandersForPresident
Please please PLEASE!! ,whocouldaknew,e8ypuoe,SandersForPresident
"2024,Death squads roam the streets, shooting trans looking people on sight.


Liberals:DON'T FORGET TO VOTE, NEXT TIME I'LL BE DIFFERENT ",freepropaganda,e8ypxit,SandersForPresident
It's our government* *Stalin*,colerpop,e8yt1bf,SandersForPresident
"Very true and well said, it’s there for the taking. The world deserves a better America",Mugembe,e8ytjxg,SandersForPresident
"""immigration"" yeah because providing free healthcare and further education while simultaneously removing border security is a great idea.

I support the first two by the way.",PoisonBucket,e8ytxie,SandersForPresident
How young is ‘young?’ ,Qtpies43232,e8yzz26,SandersForPresident
"Let me rephrase: ""if you team up you can take whatever you want under threat of violence  from the other half of the country.""",bradkrit,e8z7c4g,SandersForPresident
"One of the wonderful parts about growing this old is getting everything we want. Our old voices are strong and united... and we vote because we know it works. A big plus about young people is they're too ignorant and apathetic to understand how much voting can really change their world. 

College affordability... fuck the young, we haven't stepped in a class for 30 to 40 years. Net neutrality... we don't give a shit. We can afford to use google and Wikipedia. What do we care about social media crap... so what. What's it mean to us that watching porn or uploading your crap party photos will now cost you money. Healthcare... we can afford it. The world's got 12 to 15 years left before it all goes south... so what, most of us seniors will be dead by then.

People, especially young people would be awed if they really knew how easy it is to flip around and move governments to issues they care about, lucky for us seniors that their apathy and ignorance is our bliss. ",bitdon55,e8xmv6k,SandersForPresident
27 year old conservative here. I’ll be voting for sure! ,ck2danger,e8y7kni,SandersForPresident
"heh, representational democracy.",Aechmea,e8x6354,SandersForPresident
"There's no money left in the federal coffers for anything along the lines of nationalized college tuition or healthcare.  The SCOTUS is stacked against civil rights and for corporate rights and will be the for the rest of our lives.  You can fight for immigration but it is only hurting yourself.  Immigrants do not help people who are already in America.  That's just a fact.  

So, no.  The government is not ours and it's mostly hopeless at this point.  We will see very dark days ahead.  Austerity is the next chapter in this horror story of a failing democracy. ",Rookwood,e8xr0zz,SandersForPresident
Brian Schatz cast his superdelegate vote for hilldog after Hawaii overwhelming votes for Bernie. Guys like Schatz (and there are many) are the reason why Bernie did not win the primary (overall). You're suppose to represent the people. What's the fucking point of a primary if your elected senator is just gonna turn in the fix. Its so painfully obvious but the DNC won't change. I mean fuck Trump but the Democratic party is only Democratic in name,BoggsMcMuncher,e8yam82,SandersForPresident
Voting is not only a right but a duty to any functioning democracy,TyrekL,e8yy9s8,SandersForPresident
"Yea, but what we really want is avocado toast, yeezies, and less incest porn.",Chxo,e8x3j7r,SandersForPresident
"The youth: ""*nah*"" <resumes using reddit or tinder or whatever it is the youth do these days> ",geeked_outHyperbagel,e8xg7oj,SandersForPresident
"I am tired of people assuming that the young people have the same ideas and vote for the same shit, young people are as seperated as old people. ",sansactions,e8wv2f0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8xaij0,SandersForPresident
Young people mostly like to complain and feel angst.   ,in4real,e8xyg2l,SandersForPresident
Time to raise the voting age to 25. Problem solved.,DicoVeritas,e8xfct8,SandersForPresident
"Dangerous bullshit this. Politics isn't about taking over, or to push through your own wishes. It's about finding a middle ground, making policy that *everybody* can get behind. This self-centered thinking is exactly why US politics is such a shitshow. ",panzercampingwagen,e8xi86f,SandersForPresident
buuuuuut they wont. ,Quizzelbuck,e8xyi9p,SandersForPresident
Yea I gave up on my fellow Americans voting for their best interests a long time ago. Sheeple gonna sheep. ,Satevo462,e8y0hn2,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yeyo2,SandersForPresident
"But as a young person who has already finished school, all I want now is money. ",Supersecret1i,e8ygomd,SandersForPresident
Good argument against democracy right there.,DownvoteToKarmaHell,e8x4b4e,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8x93br,SandersForPresident
Baby boomers vote themselves money in advance from younger generations. Younger generations steal it back by force. What a lovely country.,Ninjamin_King,e8yf90c,SandersForPresident
"Flip side of this hilariously ignorant statement is that baby boomers don't care about their kids college affordability, climate, healthcare, immigration ect

He's wrong of course, and his statement is glaringly absurd",bobdylan401,e8ygdlg,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8yobge,SandersForPresident
As a 20 year old first time voter i did in fact think of my racist baby boomer uncle as i filled out my ballot the other day ,headhonchospoof,e8xkh4n,SandersForPresident
A guy can dream ,TTheorem,e8x8vqw,SandersForPresident
They will be dead by the time the carbon in the atmosphere is a problem for them. Any millennial who doesn't vote is a fucking traitor.,BlackCow,e8xr17h,SandersForPresident
Not all if them,klippinit,e8y9i9e,SandersForPresident
"
>Imagine how pissed off the ~~baby boomers~~ wealthiest 1% would be

FTFY

",SnapesGrayUnderpants,e8ypj49,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, I've had older poll workers say ""We're waiting"" in response to a comment about how young people were gonna take over one day. I think they are just as apathetic as we are about the future.",BoringNormalGuy,e8y9fqd,SandersForPresident
"You have a narrow minded view of who baby boomers are, remember all the hippies were baby boomers, and a lot of us are way farther left than you might be!",blewsyboy,e8ysl97,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8y6w4e,SandersForPresident
I predict very happy baby boomers again. Young people going out and voting isn’t going to happen. ,ASpellingAirror,e8y2r27,SandersForPresident
"I hate when people say they don't vote because they don't think it will change anything because politicians are all the same.

Politicians are all the same because the same demographics keep installing politicians.

I have been very proactive talking to strangers over the last couple of months. I hate that this is going to sound the way its going to sound, but it's the truth... Latinos and black citizens I've spoken to sound very indifferent to the political process as a whole. This is awful. This is why things never change. Because people have preemptively decided that they won't change and act accordingly... Meaning they don't act at all.

Nothing changes until you vote. Having the ability to vote and be a part of a democracy, even one as fucked up as ours, is a precious right that not everyone on this planet has the opportunity to participate. Throwing your rights away voluntarily is really bad decision making. ",Spiralyst,e8x2zvu,SandersForPresident
"Like when Bernie participated in the Democratic presidential primaries?

The parties aren't welcoming to the people who are wanting to effect change. The people who want to effect change are thus disenfranchised and don't participate because no one who can effect change is willing to listen.",dfschmidt,e8xnkkd,SandersForPresident
"I wouldn’t necessarily say that would be the outcome. The Republican Party would definitely shift its views in order to better suit the controlling demographic. It’s all about making money in the end, and all corporations do what they can to survive.",Gonslinger,e8wy4bb,SandersForPresident
"I live in Kentucky, in one of the biggest and most liberal cities. The majority of people I know under 35 are still Republicans. Welcome to the South. ",TaneCorbinYall,e8xo58d,SandersForPresident
Not all young people are Democrats. See: Proud Boys,ShelSilverstain,e8wzm6i,SandersForPresident
He's not saying 100% though. It would be absurd to expect 100% turnout. He's saying if young people matched other age groups.,shim12,e8ww0xy,SandersForPresident
"In other news I empathise with people my age and younger with not giving a shit about politics anymore. I'm 24 and when I was 16 a massive amount of the UK youth voted for a political party that promised to abolish tuition fees.

That party got into power and guess what - tuition fees were tripled instead of abolished. They were in a coalition governmment but that kind of betrayal is disguting. Politicians do whatever they want, the electorate can get fucked. I always vote but I can totally understand when people just don't care anymore.",ge0logyrocks,e8yy45s,SandersForPresident
"Ok, so people reading this group are probably politically active.  Those of you who are under 35, how do we convince your friends your age and younger, that they should vote?  What are persuasive arguments and other methods that will help to get them interested and aware of politics and voting?

""How do I reeach these keeeds?""",j_from_cali,e8xlova,SandersForPresident
"Also, I never see what I want on a ballet. Polling is important. The parties look at two things; who is voting and what polls say they want. ",Slider_0f_Elay,e8x9vk2,SandersForPresident
"Of course not every millennial believes the same things, but polls consistently show that there are differences in political beliefs by age overall, and that younger people tend to have much more liberal or even socialist beliefs compared to older people: https://mic.com/articles/159119/if-only-people-under-40-had-voted-here-s-how-the-electoral-college-would-have-looked

(It doesn’t have to be monolithic for the Senator’s statement to be true.)",slothenator654,e8ye6sf,SandersForPresident
Yes and that the current power structures don't accommodate the change in opinion,patamole,e8y0k3f,SandersForPresident
I think the majority of the military and cops will side with the citizens instead of the government if there is a revolt.  We need to organize better and have a clear vision.,FutureFlipKing,e8xnaix,SandersForPresident
"It's not an active decision usually, it's the lack of one. People get caught up in their own lives, and given that the age group works longer hours as a tendency than any other, a ton of people just do not have the psychic bandwidth leftover to include politics and policy. For a lot of people it's all just noise. ",SteveBob316,e8x11yf,SandersForPresident
They are too busy compared to other generations. Living off scraps working crazy hours while studying at the same time. Old people have money and free retirement time. Voting days should be national holidays,BopTheDrass,e8x5dwf,SandersForPresident
"Because the Republicans have successfuly created apathy towards politics by being so horrible. This is exactly what they wanted.

All the young people say ""all politicians are crap your vote doesn't matter"" and then the Republicans win",SolarClipz,e8x0wn6,SandersForPresident
"This election it’s important to just get the republicans out of office. We should have A ranked voting system for green/independent votes, otherwise they’re a waste. ",Thatythat,e8yvjbh,SandersForPresident
I’ve been voting green for years and there’s still no progress. Everyone voted for Blue. It’s exhausting I give up. ,Qtpies43232,e8z0pf7,SandersForPresident
"I disagree with the system as a whole so why partake?  I disagree with the idea that everyone should get a say.  I disagree with the idea that all human life is precious and should be saved.  I disagree that people are even capable of wielding power in an ethical way.

If you disagree with the premise, and the premise will never be changed, why take part at all?",bigWAXmfinBADDEST,e8y73ht,SandersForPresident
This! ☝️,Qtpies43232,e8z0jmw,SandersForPresident
"A lot of young people don’t care anymore because we’ve been voting and we’ve seen nothing happening, nothing changing. (Idk if I’m considered young. I’m 27) I care(d), so damn much. So much that I would cry and make myself anxious. Caring about About equality, injustice, environment, poor people, mental illness, and it just seems like MOST people don’t care.

 I’m tired of voting and trying to make a difference. This is is exhausting. I honestly don’t even care anymore. Democrats and Republicans
disgust me equally and I hate them both. Politicians don’t give a damn about anyone but their bottom line. Fuck it all to hell honestly. I don’t care anymore. I’m exhausted trying to fight for everyone’s rights. ",Qtpies43232,e8z0g3d,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8yphnw,SandersForPresident
"That's simply false. Going off registered voter data. Only 17% of young people (millennials those born 81-96) are registered Republicans. 35% registered Democrats and the rest are either Independent or unaffiliated. 

And voting turnout shows that that same group has a 60/32 (the other 8 percent is other parties) democratic lean as most of the Independents tend to side more with Democrats than Republicans. And millennial women are the most important as they're a 70/20 Democratic lean. 

Young people vote Blue. It's a simple fact. Not all but definitely a striking majority.",Uther-Lightbringer,e8wwquj,SandersForPresident
This isn't true at all but ok.,BawsDaddy,e8wvtwe,SandersForPresident
"\> I am tired of people assuming that the young people have the same ideas and vote for the same shit,  

That wasn't assumed in this context, though.  Statistically, younger Americans support progressive policies in a greater proportion than older Americans.  There are plenty of very progressive older people and right wing Pepe the Frog type younger people like you, it's just statistically more likely for a younger person to be more progressive.  ",h_lance,e8x0il2,SandersForPresident
"This is being remove for fear mongering. The rules define fear mongering as:

> Any post or public statement which spreads fear, intimidation, or unease but either has no direct or clear benefit to the greater goals of the sub or is intended to coerce subscribers into behaving or engaging in any way that they would not have done otherwise.

Please read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting something similar.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8xvx44,SandersForPresident
"I know you are being sarcastic, however that is not a bad idea.  Our brains are not fully developed until that age.  I have no idea why all our laws are centered around turning 18 and 21.",FutureFlipKing,e8xng30,SandersForPresident
"There is no middle ground on climate change. Literally nothing matters if we don't get this under control. We are currently lead by people who will be dead by the time this is a problem for them. The president thinks the whole thing is a hoax made up by the chinese.

Our generation absolutely needs to take over.",BlackCow,e8xr6wg,SandersForPresident
"Tell the Republicans that, my coworkers are tribal as fuck, they would shoot themselves just to spite a democrat if he said not to.",Jokka42,e8xixu5,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8ypi5a,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8xvwgh,SandersForPresident
"""Older people are also notorious for holding outdated concepts forth as truths that newer generations realize to be completely incorrect."" 

Getting old doesn't automatically make one wise.",meet_the_seed,e8yqblt,SandersForPresident
Same for my racist boomer narc ass parents who vote against me and my sibling's futures. I hope my vote actually did something..,PinkLEDLamp,e8yaeuu,SandersForPresident
"I'm currently standing in line 1.5 hours to cancel put my idiot fucking coworkers vote who said ""beto wants to take my guns, Cruz doesnt"". Then he started going off on beto being an alcoholic like we disnt just see Kavenaugh be selected .... Fuck all of you racists.

Voting Beto!",Ihateyouall86,e8y4b0d,SandersForPresident
"I don't mean to pry, but why didn't you vote in 2016? ",norwegianEel,e8xm4bg,SandersForPresident
If nothing else you nullify his vote. So woo! 😁 ,cultured_banana_slug,e8xtkql,SandersForPresident
"If you ever grow up, get a real job and get smacked with reality chances are you'll become your uncle.",chiefofbaskets,e8yjtow,SandersForPresident
"Comrades, lets because of a vision and not out of malice.",FutureFlipKing,e8xmnz0,SandersForPresident
A guy can vote ,twenty-tentacles,e8xuzw6,SandersForPresident
[I'm not alone](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=Why+I+hate+baby+boomers),ShelSilverstain,e8zjou3,SandersForPresident
"I assure you that I don't. Individually, some of you are okay. As a group, you're the most selfish people on the planet. Everybody who has ever worked with customers hates your generation, and not because of your age. 

You're entitled, self centered, self important, imposing, opinionated, greedy, judgmental, ignorant, smug, and incapable of empathizing with others.

But I'm sure that you're different",ShelSilverstain,e8z0eoa,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8y74g3,SandersForPresident
Sad.,xibrah,e8yk25u,SandersForPresident
"Very well said.

However I do have to say that I can understand their skepticism.

Many politicians in our history have used people to get elected. Right now we need to get the Republicans out of office and then we need to get the right wing Democrats out of office.",xxoites,e8x4q1k,SandersForPresident
"> Latinos and black citizens I've spoken to sound very indifferent to the political process as a whole.

We were talking about this sort of thing in my sociology class, and these demographics have a very small sense of societal obligation outside of their own communities. Typically they aren't very likely to go outside their own communities to help society as a whole. Add to that a cultural tendency to view higher education as unnecessary, and you've got a recipe for indifference to politics.

Honestly, those groups have become very compartmentalized, mainly because over the years between the war on immigration and the war on drugs & gangs has made both communities very self-reliant and xenophobic to outsiders and outsider's issues. 

I'm completely oversimplifying this, but that's what we were talking about in the class. ",trebory6,e8xgku0,SandersForPresident
"Don't worry, the demographics are changing very rapidly. By just 2040 white Americans will no longer have supermajority control of how their country is run.",Alexo_Exo,e8yqn90,SandersForPresident
"Man you still believe in the system, which is why you think voting is action",barbadosslim,e8xadnr,SandersForPresident
"Listen you hip young cats. We want to cut taxes so we can vape that healthy tobacco wax brought to you by Marlboro and Exxon. Remember it’s the Republicans that want to help small companies like ATT and Comcast so we can all get down on some fortfight battles y’all. Don’t let those old stinky Dems take your hard earned money from working part time at Starbucks and McDonalds to pay for someone else’s healthcare. They should just get a wii fit like us Republicans. Now let’s crush some brews and hit the polls you youngins. 

** brought to you by the GOP **",TheDriveHome,e8xs94f,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but I feel like like Louisville and Lexington neither have a lot of black voters like say Atlanta does or a lot of immigrants.

Kentucky strikes me as fairly white. I could be wrong though. I haven't looked into it.

I like the state though. I make the drive to climb in the red River gorge about 10-12 times a year now.

I usually stop and eat in at least one of those cities.",Chicago1871,e8ybiml,SandersForPresident
Please don't equate all young Republicans with these morons. ,vikingmeshuggah,e8ywzke,SandersForPresident
Never said they were? The majority of them are though.,Uther-Lightbringer,e8wzw5x,SandersForPresident
"I understand, I was purposely taking it to the extreme. Young people idolize European countries that are extremely progressive. The difference is those countries often have like 80%+ voter turnout. The US on the other hand is I think like 40%? 

Young people want progressive policy, healthcare for all, free state college etc. but they're also too lazy to get off their ass and go vote because it gets in the way of their Fortnite. And it pisses me off, especially because mail in ballots exist. Takes all of 30 seconds from your couch to vote. ",Uther-Lightbringer,e8wwdnv,SandersForPresident
"Well realistically we have to do it ourselves, our generation was notoriously difficult to advertise to (not sure if that's the case now) and I feel myself and others see a lot of things in that light. A Jehovah's Witness at my door is the same as a vacuum salesman, he just wants me to buy what he's selling. But when we talk to each other about it we can absorb that information better, my roommate wasn't wanting to vote but I convinced him of the importance of all elections big or small just through 1 or 2 conversations.",RegicidalReginald,e8yuwgh,SandersForPresident
"Peer pressure.  
""Damn it, Kelly, get your ass to the polls!""  
""Hey kid, wanna try some political engagement.""  
""There is this place giving away free stickers, all you have to do is vote. Crazy right?""  
Works every time. :)",pyroakuma,e8y0l1r,SandersForPresident
"Vote for the thing closest to what you want, you will never see it if you wait for an utopian candidate to come out of the woodwork and somehome gain a large share of the vote.",Jokka42,e8xirmm,SandersForPresident
"Really? I thought they’d back the government, they do sign their checks. ",Qtpies43232,e8z0nzw,SandersForPresident
"This\^  


 Most youth are either being worked to the bone just to survive or taking what time they have to relax, saying Hey on top of uni classes exams/projects and your 2 part-time jobs you have to go over here and think about who is going to control very subtle things about your life that you won't really understand unless you fully research it and won't see the results straight away, but could make it easier for you if everyone else also votes for that person too! (But we've encouraged society to not talk about who your voting for with people you know >\_>) 

&#x200B;

IDK about anyone else but when your super tired and strung out that sounds like low odds (Which in this environment even low odds is still preferable to none and people need to go out and vote) I'm not even From America and this election feels super important to me because i like this planet and don't want to see it destroyed or thrown into war because Americans wanted to watch abit more tv >\_>",An_Unreachable_Dusk,e8ywekd,SandersForPresident
"It's shameful that what you say is true. But, I disagree with your last point - the entire *week* of the vote should be a national holiday (or, at a minimum 3 days), with polls open more than one day. And punishments handed out to any non-emergency corporations (i.e. banking, retail, etc.) that even 'suggest' employees work on those holidays.

Create special exceptions to the above for hospitals and ambulance/police, etc., and set up special polling apperatuses for them. 

Do this until voters aren't disenfranchised anymore and democracy is restored. ",tfitch2140,e8xgzyp,SandersForPresident
"Paid national holidays!

&#x200B;

\+ maybe Mandatory voting like here in Australia, having a $70 bill as a uni student doesn't sound like it would be fun unless times are better.",An_Unreachable_Dusk,e8ywez3,SandersForPresident
"yeah even so, just vote for some independent. I vote for an independent even though he won't win, but I vote",sasiralla,e8xe16z,SandersForPresident
"In USA 50% of electorate is non voting, which means if all of them vote, they can put green party in power",sasiralla,e8z2q6j,SandersForPresident
"You know what, make other non voters vote green. The Dems should know that they need to listen to people. But Dont stop voting. thats what the establishment wants",sasiralla,e8z2p73,SandersForPresident
I agree with you. Feel the same way. I tries to get them all out to vote because none of them ever have yet and again they love to talk politics but are lazy to go vote. I wosh people understood how bad climate change is and how desperately the world needs the USA to have leaders who want to fight it. Literally every other issue can sit on the back burner to climate change because no other issue matters when the earth wants to kill us off. But again most people don’t understand what’s happening and are easily distracted. ,jaded1982,e8z5f7c,SandersForPresident
"[Yup, especially for progressive ideas.](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg)",Chartis,e8wzei9,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8wx32p,SandersForPresident
It’s not true.,aqua_vit,e8wwgyr,SandersForPresident
"What makes you think i am right wing?
Edit: I am a big bernie sanders supporter. ",sansactions,e8x60ja,SandersForPresident
"As long as 18 year olds are old enough to go to war, they're old enough to vote. Any age you'd set for voting would be arbitrary. Why not sixteen? Or twenty three?


And 21 is the age you age out of public school no matter what- that's why MADD wanted the drinking age to be raised to 21- to keep alcohol out of high schools, which as anyone who has ever been to a high school can assure you was very effective /s",josskt,e8yeak0,SandersForPresident
"Oh please, ""nothing else matters"", don't be so edgy. Climate change is happening and is only gonna get worse. We can't even convince people that have half-decent educations about the necessity, how do you think the CO² story is gonna go over with the millions of Indians or Chinese that are elevated into the middle class each year. ",panzercampingwagen,e8xs596,SandersForPresident
"""No no, *they* are tribalistic.""

Surely you see the irony here?",panzercampingwagen,e8xnjgv,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8z7uh9,SandersForPresident
"My previously mentioned uncle’s favorite argument for his appalling voting record is “protecting gun rights” too.. has been since Obama got in.  
Btw apply to vote by mail next year! i helped the future of my country in my underwear without any human contact - a good feeling.",headhonchospoof,e8y71hr,SandersForPresident
I live in California so i figured the Hilary vote was a given.. was right but still terrible for missing it,headhonchospoof,e8xm82w,SandersForPresident
"Sure as i get older I’ll probably start to lean somewhat conservative but no, me having a career is not going to make me a brain dead trump supporter.  It’s not going to make me blame immigrants for my problems. It’s not going to make me call for any politician’s head. ",headhonchospoof,e8ykgcg,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, that's not inevitable at all. Bernie is an example. Not as old as Bernie, I'm 42 and have always lived a progressive life. No one 'becomes' a racist (excluding some schematic shift because of disease or trauma, perhaps) they always had irrational beliefs about race or class.",Olivers_Dad,e8yv4gp,SandersForPresident
"I only get more leftist as I get older tbh (and yes, I am out of college, have a real job and pay lots of taxes)",Ttabts,e8ywjb8,SandersForPresident
Sometimes doing the good thing has good side effects too...,nphased,e8xn3u8,SandersForPresident
This guy did already! Working on my family in republican Orange County...,TTheorem,e8xvbmo,SandersForPresident
"Two things, baby boomers are really a couple generations squeezed into one, i mean i have little in common with someone born in 45 (born 62); also, I think environment has a lot to do with it... a Californian or Vermonter born in early 60's won't have the same political views as a BB from Missouri or South Dakota. I'm Canadian from Quebec, and I'd consider myself slightly left of center, while people from my generation out west, say Alberta vote massively to the right. Essentially i feel there are narrow minded judgemental assholes in all generations, and you're doing a pretty good job of proving my point, thanks.",blewsyboy,e916a6u,SandersForPresident
"That's the beauty of this specific election. Especially on the municiple and statehouse level, there are candidates running from a wide array of backgrounds. It's remarkable. For forever we've had mostly just lawyers and businessmen running everything. But now we have people running for office with education backgrounds, low skill labor backgrounds, and other nontraditional areas. Most of the time, it's true, politicians have an agenda that makes them want an office. But some people's agenda this term is to get more voices in the system from different backgrounds. There are more Socialists running now than ever before. More aethesits. More LGTB candidates. We really do have an opportunity to actually put together a political engine that's more comprehensive than ever before. ",Spiralyst,e8x5ffl,SandersForPresident
"More or less yeah. I'd be careful of framing it in a way that makes them seem to not care, not that you mean to, just rather it comes from a history of being treated like second class citizens.

A lot of this ""woke"" stuff comes from the fact that unfortunately the history of government and politics in this country have given minorities a reason to not trust a single thing that it does. They don't understand that this thinking only makes it worse because the same people keep winning. They think no one is out there looking out for them.

So I don't blame them at all, its just sad it's really hard to get them to see",SolarClipz,e8xi0my,SandersForPresident
"That's not true as far as the Senate goes.

In the next 20 years, urban migration is projected to climb to the point where 73% of the nation's population lives in 13 states.

This means conservatives can capture a heavy majority in the Senate in basically every election pandering to homogenous rural white communities. Even if 75% of the entire population votes for Democrats, the GOP could still conceivably take 60 to 70% of the Senate seats.

This all needs to change. You combine North Dakota, South Dakota, Arizona, Montana and Wyoming, you still aren't even getting close to touching the population center just in the Bay Area and LA County of California. But representation-wise, that's 10 Seante votes to 2.

",Spiralyst,e8zcncf,SandersForPresident
Yeah KY is pretty white.,RegicidalReginald,e8yuo9h,SandersForPresident
"""we're just a little fascist""",ShelSilverstain,e8z0fhy,SandersForPresident
"[Yup.](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) Among 18-29 year olds (which includes gen z of voting age) [71% are above a 50/50 chance of voting (40% definitely), 75% of likely voters disapprove of the GOP.](http://iop.harvard.edu/spring-2018-national-youth-poll)",Chartis,e8x8uow,SandersForPresident
That's actually no longer the case...gen z is pretty conservative. ,JoeyWong420,e8x502i,SandersForPresident
"IDK, lots of my friends (I'm 23) who don't vote always seem to just be uninterested. They see voting as useless, ""Politicians are liars and just fuck us over anyways, why bother"" type of thinking. I have never seen someone not vote because it's inconvenient or other laziness, that just sounds like a strawman to me.",mrknowitall95,e8x06ha,SandersForPresident
"> but they're also too lazy to get off their ass and go vote because it gets in the way of their Fortnite

Congratulations on having written the most ignorant thing I've read all day.

This is absolutely not the case. Young people aren't lazy, they're disenfranchised. Young people feel that there is no point in voting because they see how the system works against them. They don't vote because they're not interested or involved in politics, because the topics discussed are either not important to them, or they feel their vote will not make a difference. It's a bit of a 'chicken or the egg' situation, and is not something that can or will change overnight, but the whole 'young people are just lazy' talking point really needs to be retired.",r34l17yh4x,e8xbv1b,SandersForPresident
I do vote. But I can understand people who have no interest in the narratives either party is talking about. Why should they vote for one of two options that isn't going to even talk about the issues they want addressed?,Slider_0f_Elay,e8xj1x6,SandersForPresident
And parades so people can get to know their representatives — I was poll watching in my district the other day and a fellow poll watcher and elder activist mentioned how back in the day they use to have parades come through their small communities almost every election. Now we just need people to treat voting like it’s a party. People always show up for parties. ,1tracksystem,e8xi5dj,SandersForPresident
No that’s too ‘liberal’ ,Qtpies43232,e8z0u3c,SandersForPresident
Politics is a zero sum game. Why vote of an independent you know isn't going to get elected?,Jokka42,e8xikhf,SandersForPresident
"Yeah... and if everyone stopped smoking at once we could shut down big tobacco. If we could get every American to donate $1, we could end poverty. These are both things that could easily happen, but are beyond unlikely.. this is why a ranked voting system is the way we need to go. ",Thatythat,e8zgpdv,SandersForPresident
"Correct, the reason Hillary lost is because she wasn't progressive enough and it pissed people off that she won over Bernie. So they simply didn't show up much during the actual election. ",Uther-Lightbringer,e8wzk0g,SandersForPresident
Or maybe propaganda worked better on the previous generation and now they are old and vote red....,8yr0n,e8wxpz8,SandersForPresident
"This is simply not true. How many 23 yr olds do you know who do nothing all day except watch Fox News 10 hours straight? 0

Now the 65+ crowd on the other hand...",KrapTacu1ar,e8wycxa,SandersForPresident
">wise up

Funny. Seems you got lost. TD is the other way -->",SolarClipz,e8x18bs,SandersForPresident
It's true if you ignore all polling data and voter registration records. ,KrapTacu1ar,e8wyeok,SandersForPresident
Apologies.  Usually it's right wingers who get annoyed when the fact that young people are more progressive (on average) is brought up.,h_lance,e8x69vz,SandersForPresident
"I'm not being edgy. I literally mean literally. When crops fail, coastal cities flood, and the economy tanks there isn't going to be a government left to argue about.

Your pessimism isn't going to solve anything. We have no other option but to figure out carbon neutral energy to power the increasing demand here and in developing nations. 

We are going to have to engineer ourselves out of this problem. We are going to have to fund research with tax dollars and demand the wealthy to pay a little more *gasp*. 

This is our generation's moon shot. Failure is not an option.",BlackCow,e8xwsio,SandersForPresident
"I'm willing to work with non partisan people, I'm in favor of small, conservative government, while a liberal, but they don't stand for these ideals anymore. They're about appeasing their donors, their voting records are proof of that. Democrats are always working to meet in the middle, you should know that.",Jokka42,e8xnpwy,SandersForPresident
"Sure but new ideas from new humans is how we've made ""progress"" over time.",meet_the_seed,e8zsn9q,SandersForPresident
"Sure but new ideas from new humans is how we've made ""progress"" over time.",meet_the_seed,e8zsno9,SandersForPresident
I stood in line for 2.5 hours but it's done! Did my part!,Ihateyouall86,e8y7so5,SandersForPresident
The president is the least important person you vote for. The more local the candidate the more impact they have on your life directly. VOTE EVERY ELECTION ALWAYS!,samcbar,e8y6clk,SandersForPresident
"Ah as a Minnesotan voter I understand. I still use my right though, even if it's a drop in the bucket. It's *my* drop. ",norwegianEel,e8xmekc,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8xodxs,SandersForPresident
"Local and State stuff still matters.

California has radical things change due to the way our proposition system works

Also, sign up for permanent absentee ballot in CA",geeky_username,e8yb9uv,SandersForPresident
As a Texas I understand but I still voted in he last presidential election and primaries. You never know :) so I'd rather vote just in case ,IrkedCupcake,e8y814j,SandersForPresident
Weird ,chiefofbaskets,e8z1h41,SandersForPresident
"You just convinced me that I should like you.

We are toast, but I want to go down swinging.

Thank you.",xxoites,e8x5q95,SandersForPresident
"Oh of course, and I agree with everything you're saying.

Yeah, I definitely don't mean to have it come across as that. ",trebory6,e8xktti,SandersForPresident
"Latino here, I have encountered a large amount of Latinos that don't vote because they don't see themselves as part of the USA, even though they level here,  it is an horrible way of thinking, but it comes from their upbringing, they were taught to hate the USA for whatever stupid reason the corrupt politician in their country needed an expiatory sheep to divert the hate, and it is easy to back up those claims by those horrible acts USA rappresentatives has done to those countries in the past, and the backwards way people are classified here, I studied in Europe and I never had to specify neither my race nor my ethnicity to anyone there, however here in usa I have had to do this even when filling a questionary...

Sadly this is a problem that is caused more by Latinos themselves instead of lack of rappresentation here, the only *good* part about this is that second generation Latinos don't think about that at all, and try to make their communities more participant in society",Myronal,e8z1e0g,SandersForPresident
That's simply not true. ,Uther-Lightbringer,e8x5rhv,SandersForPresident
Happy to let you keep thinking that.,TarmacFFS,e8xbari,SandersForPresident
"They're slightly more conservative than millennials or gen xers in certain behaviors and opinions but they're hardly conservative compared to their grandparents, the baby boomers or the silent generation.

Read the studies, not just the tl;dr headlines.",Chicago1871,e8ybv3h,SandersForPresident
Not to mention concentration in states that are seen as going a particular direction no matter what. ,indoninjah,e8xcixk,SandersForPresident
"Literally all my friends say this, drives me nuts!",MerryMarauder,e8xeu7p,SandersForPresident
You can't vote yourself free ,heartofawhale,e8x0rdu,SandersForPresident
"I mean, I'm a young person, I know a lot of young people. It's both. It's a combination. And what I said wasn't ignorant. I was basically just making a joke and I thought that was pretty obvious with the Fortnite part, but apparently not. 

The mentality is ""I'm one vote in 300 million, why am I going to waste my time at the polls?"" 

It's both, it's both a laziness and a disenfranchisement. Even if you're not sure if your vote matters, it takes like 5 minutes to fill out a mail in ballot and mail it in. You don't have to go wait on line at the polls or anything. You fill your ballot out, toss it in the mailbox on your way to work and you're done. And people still won't bother. It's ridiculous and it is to some degree a laziness issue.",Uther-Lightbringer,e8xei43,SandersForPresident
One can feel lazy and disenfranchised. ,rumblith,e8xy15u,SandersForPresident
"It's like all the money they raise now goes to TV ads, but if instead of TV ads they spent 100K on a party with a couple beers for everyone, they'd get elected with 90+% turnout... ",tfitch2140,e8xic74,SandersForPresident
"They repeated that lie many times and convinced the majority of the populace that both parties vote the same.  In actuality they vote completely different on healthcare, education and infrastructure.  The list goes on and on.",FutureFlipKing,e8xn3lj,SandersForPresident
Because every vote they have is a vote that the main party's dont have. The main party's will try and fight and change their views to take votes back from independents. It's why the green party and simmilar dont just give up because they only get 2 or 4 % of the vote. It's still 2 or 4 % of the vote that main party's dont get. So for main party's to take back that 2 or 4 % they have to change policy. At least this is theoretically the case if no one voted purely for the sake of party's. ,crazypistolman,e8y7d68,SandersForPresident
"to protest against establishment in my country. Both our parties are corrupt. If only everyone thought like this..
",sasiralla,e8xiu7e,SandersForPresident
Bernie you mean. Awesome name btw lol,SolarClipz,e8x1az5,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8wyu69,SandersForPresident
"This post clims if all young pzople vote it would do extreme stuf, no it wouldn't. I c it as a 35% more right wing and more 65% left wing. Not that big as a difference if calculated in the voting. ",sansactions,e8xsgoz,SandersForPresident
"You are preaching the apocalypse (*literally*) and call me the pessimist?

There will be problems, but nothing we can't handle. Lots of poor people will die, fortunately for us you and I aren't poor. ",panzercampingwagen,e8xya6e,SandersForPresident
I can hardly believe how you judge others for behaviour shown by yourself *in the exact same fucking sentence*. ,panzercampingwagen,e8xqynu,SandersForPresident
isn't it crazy you have to stand for that long just to vote,parmarossa,e8yb0t5,SandersForPresident
And the more impact your vote has.,subLimb,e8yqk94,SandersForPresident
Minnesota went for Hillary by 1.2 pts. Trump is a legit threat to win here in 2020. Take nothing for granted.,pablonieve,e8xy8ay,SandersForPresident
"I think thats a huge part of the problem. People don't really know how MUCH is voted for. 
A lot of it goes without any competition either, many positions are met with very few votes, and sometimes none at all. 
There are also votes to REMOVE people from office too, like corrupt judges. 

A huge part of is is total disenfranchisement of this generation. We were taught that our vote had no weight, that we had no power, so we believed it. 
I certainly did. 

Then i realized how much voting actually matters, and how many positions of office are actually voted for. Ballots aren't just for one person. 

We really need to get the message across to this generation that yes, your votes do matter, and while you may not get the one big one, You can still influence the rest in a positive way and take or give power to other departments that way. 
If we had voted out more republicans in congress, then trump wouldn't have nearly as much sway as he does and a lot of his bullshittery would have been avoided. 

VOTE. 

For everyone's sake just VOTE. ",simon_C,e8xrca7,SandersForPresident
"What can I say, good public services are 👌",Ttabts,e8zsv76,SandersForPresident
It simply is true,JoeyWong420,e8x73zp,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yh4au,SandersForPresident
What?,mrknowitall95,e8x0zml,SandersForPresident
The argument really is moot. It's all excuses not to vote either way. Saying that nothing will be changed if you vote or not is ridiculous. How would you know if there's never been any concerted effort to do it? Just try it ffs. How hard is it to stop at the polls for a bit and vote?  ,surfnaked,e8xfrur,SandersForPresident
"For real, throwing a party for millennial voters — or just finding ways to get them thinking that freedom, festivals, and liberty are 100%  connected to voting is necessary; rather than making snide, asinine remarks about the younger generation, a strategy which involves ZERO strategic thinking. Most millennials realize they are being given a broken and corrupt system—“too complicated to understand”—that is trying to cannibalize  them.       ",1tracksystem,e8xlyq7,SandersForPresident
"Beto O'Rourke in Texas did campaign events called ""beers with Beto"" and honestly they were amazing ",josskt,e8ydvh2,SandersForPresident
"Oh you're from india, I didn't read the flair. I don't know much about your political system to comment on it, but in America voting for independents is a literal waste of time.",Jokka42,e8xj4rw,SandersForPresident
"Yes, edited lol",Uther-Lightbringer,e8x1eko,SandersForPresident
For what reasons are you conservative? That's an honest question.,Uther-Lightbringer,e8wyxo9,SandersForPresident
It would make a huge difference and the numbers you give prove why.  Now I see that your issue is not being right wing but more likely being defensive about not voting.  ,h_lance,e8z9aga,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8xynhf,SandersForPresident
Imagine having this little empathy for other living humans ,josskt,e8yed3w,SandersForPresident
You're reading into something that's not there dude. ,Jokka42,e8xrrqp,SandersForPresident
Yep but even with ankle surgery 3 months ago I'd do it again if I had to.,Ihateyouall86,e8yem5g,SandersForPresident
"I was actually fucking stoked how easy it was in Utah. Election day registration, no photo ID required (two pieces of mail was enough), every registered voter gets a mail in ballot, long early voting periods, many many polling stations open till 7 or 8 in the evening. It took me about 15 minutes to go down update my address to vote in my county and actually vote.  I really felt like my government wanted me to participate and it was incredibly empowering. It's worked really well too, we're at 43% voter turnout already in salt lake county and on track to hit 75% once it's all done, that's just fucking phenomenal.  

Idk what my point really is with this but no matter the end result I'm proud I participated and I'm proud for my fellow Utahhns.",david_pili,e8yq4fe,SandersForPresident
"Good point, well I always vote anyways, so I definitely don’t take it for granted. ",norwegianEel,e8y2fpc,SandersForPresident
Yeah they voted for that goofy Dayton in for governor. ,Idiocracyis4real,e8yw47m,SandersForPresident
"It's really not because we don't actually have many figures on Gen Z voters yet as many aren't of legal age to vote yet. It's really only the first like 2-3 years of Gen Z babies were of legal age to vote in 2016. This midterm will be the first real impact we see from the Gen Z in terms of political impact. It's also part of what makes these midterms so hard to predict. We don't really know how those like 18-23 year olds are going to vote. Only the 20-23 year olds were able to vote in 2016, even if they did get rallied up by Trump's message and find the meme of Trump funny, we don't actually know how they'll respond to the reality of life under Trump. 

It really won't be until 2020 that we have a good handle on how Gen Z leans. ",Uther-Lightbringer,e8x82dx,SandersForPresident
"It's not. There's 2 small studies on the subject, and frankly I'm not convinced that gen z is gonna do an about face and start hating gays again or demanding college be expensive.

After the studies came out they did the rounds on all the conservative subreddits though so they got magnified well out of proportion ",AssCrackBanditHunter,e8xcfpl,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Consider this an **official warning.** Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8yhplh,SandersForPresident
That's my entire point?,Uther-Lightbringer,e8xi1iq,SandersForPresident
"I see, it's atleast better than not turning up right? we have 70% youth voter turnout here",sasiralla,e8xkfsd,SandersForPresident
"He's a TDer

He got pulled in by the propaganda lol. No different than the rest of them. ",SolarClipz,e8x11gs,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8x5cf6,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8yhrj5,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8xzsx5,SandersForPresident
As if anyone in the western world actually gives a fuck about what happens in Bangladesh. If we did global warming wouldn't have been an issue right now.,panzercampingwagen,e8yetcw,SandersForPresident
"You start with mentioning you're only willing to work with non partisan people to then go on to speak exclusively in a partisan manner.  Us and them. 

And then that last sentence: ""The people in *my* group only want the best, you should know that"". Patronising and straight up ignorant. And again, extremely partisan. ",panzercampingwagen,e8xszkq,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yx4i9,SandersForPresident
"Just because you're not ""convinced"" doesn't make it untrue...",JoeyWong420,e8yj8of,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I just wanted to emphasize that either is just an excuse, and really had no validity. I don't know but it seems like young voters seldom think of themselves as a bloc with some real power. Or they would be if they actually all voted like the Republicans do. ",surfnaked,e8xt0jm,SandersForPresident
"You’re absolutely right and it’s true even in the US. The guy you are responding to doesn’t realize that fact. In his mind voting for an independent candidate is literally equivalent to not voting at all. It’s a big time circle jerk  in the states that gets passed around pretty regularly. The person you replied to is a big part of the problem. The more we demonize people for voting “incorrectly,” the more we turn young voters off. The right does it on purpose (to curtail young progressive votes). The left does it because they’re self righteous (perfection is the enemy of very good if that makes sense). It’s a mess...",PMyourHotTakes,e8xqyld,SandersForPresident
">socialized medicine, pro-state social programs, pro marijuana

You're a lib my friend. If this is what's important you should have voted for Hillary. ",KrapTacu1ar,e8x7ts5,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8y9m6g,SandersForPresident
Wow imagine having this little empathy for your fellow human beings! ,josskt,e8yf3d9,SandersForPresident
You're not trying to argue in good faith so I'm going to stop responding after this comment. Have a good day.,Jokka42,e8xu1ks,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8zf221,SandersForPresident
Why don't you attempt to lay out why it's true. I already gave you a lil help by acknowledging a few studies exist. Go find em tiger!,AssCrackBanditHunter,e8z113z,SandersForPresident
"Imagine if the other 70% millennials who don't vote, vote for a third party. US would have a legitimate 3 party system",sasiralla,e8xvj4v,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8xamea,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yaj3k,SandersForPresident
"Notice how I said ""we""? For once in your life you are included. ",panzercampingwagen,e8yfe20,SandersForPresident
"That's gracious of you, to admit you're wrong like that. ",panzercampingwagen,e8xue37,SandersForPresident
why you gotta be like that? ,JoeyWong420,e8z91eq,SandersForPresident
"Couldn’t agree more. US politicians in general would be forced to take notice of a candidate got 20%. Instead we shake third party voters. Insuring the security of the big two parties. Letting them jostle each other for power primary, and making good on their word for their supporters secondary. ",PMyourHotTakes,e8y3fvc,SandersForPresident
The WikiLeaks emails contain nothing of substance,KrapTacu1ar,e8xbd5f,SandersForPresident
Would you vote for Bernie though?,pyrowolf8,e8xfjzs,SandersForPresident
"Also, for me at least, misinterpreted terminology and selectively leaked emails. I don’t think it’s fake per se and I never really trusted Hillary and her ilk, but Pizzagate was only popular for opposition smearing, hence I can’t take anything I read from it without a pinch of salt.",pyrowolf8,e8xfwxm,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ybalg,SandersForPresident
wow imagine purposefully aligning yourself with the capitalist ruling class like this,josskt,e92nnxe,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yclbp,SandersForPresident
*Everyone* living in western worlds contributes to the oppression of people living in poverty worldwide. Our prosperity comes at the expense of theirs. The only difference between you and I is that I am not being sanctimonious about it. ,panzercampingwagen,e93146q,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yekb8,SandersForPresident
wow imagine being this understanding that capitalism is the root of evil but being unwilling to make amends to the people it negatively affects,josskt,e93fo99,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yg0e5,SandersForPresident
"Possessing more stuff means more chances for your genes to pass on. I don't think it's fair to blame human nature on capitalism. In fact, capitalism has provided society with the highest level of equality of any system tried.

I do care about Bangladeshi people. But then when confronted with the facts I realise I am not willing or able to make substantial changes to my lifestyle to protect them, and thus am forced to conclude that apparently I don't care about them that much. 

The first part about changing your lifestyle goes for virtually everyone in the Western world. The last part doesn't, which makes me an easy target for you. ",panzercampingwagen,e93gtuo,SandersForPresident
"Hey real talk- we exist in a post-scarcity society. We live in a false scarcity society. Global warming is caused by about three greyhound buses full of people, and it would cost like only 30b USD to all but end hunger. I don't have the power to fix those things. There is very little that I can do, because there is no such thing as ethical consumption under capitalism. (Fun fact- serfs under feudalism saw capitalism as a downgrade!)

I could change every aspect of my lifestyle and it still wouldn't help Bangladeshi people. Jeff Bezos could blink and solve world hunger. This is not a 'we' thing. ",josskt,e93iuma,SandersForPresident
"Jeff Bezos wouldn't sell shit if *we* didn't buy it.

Nothing's stopping us to give the finger to those 150-200 busfarers by disconnecting from the power-grid and start growing our own food. Not doing so and continuing to benefit from their activities is a conscious decision and as such we are responsible. Ultimately, the power lies with the people and not the busfarers.  ",panzercampingwagen,e93mt08,SandersForPresident
"Cool, you wanna give me the resources necessary to disconnect? Wanna help move me into an earthship in New Mexico? Or even a cabin in the woods? Wanna handle my healthcare issues? Wanna help me cash out my 4k in savings and somehow live on that without an income the rest of my life? Am I expected to die for the good of the rest of mankind? 
Compromise is not necessarily complicity. Your options are not just ""not give a shit"" or ""become Amish"". Just because you and I were born into more privileged positions does not mean that we are not also born into oppression. Someone educated in Marxist theory might call us ""the working aristocracy""- a high schooler might recognize us as ""District One"". 

And sure, if we collectively decided tomorrow not to give Bezos anymore money (a decision I've already made, though I can't guarantee I've noticed every subsidiary in my consumption), he would fail- but so would everyone under him. That would, at this point, destabilize a major part of the economy. Capitalism forces an impossible choice- do we remain complicit, or do we destabilize the lives of everyone we know and love? 
You can choose to make that choice, if you want, or you can do your best to take a third option. ",josskt,e93z9a0,SandersForPresident
"imo we shouldn't be selling any form of weaponry to anyone. I would go so far as to say we shouldn't even let private companies manufacture them, but have the US military have sovereignty over that sector of manufacturing to eliminate any source of pressure for the private sector to allow those types of sales to go through.",apfeltes,e8z581i,SandersForPresident
"Or to the present US administration and its Congress of lackeys.

**VOTE!** goddamned you!",xxoites,e8z5722,SandersForPresident
"
>The War in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster.

>Many thousands of civilians have been killed. Millions are now at the risk of the most severe famine in more than 100 years.  

>* We are providing bombs the Saudi-led coalition is using  
>* We are refueling their planes before they drop those bombs  
>* We are assisting with intelligence  

>An American-made bomb obliterated a school bus full of young boys. American weapons have been used in a string of such deadly attacks on civilians.  

>2015-2018 more than 30% of the Saudi-led coalition’s targets have been nonmilitary.   


---  

>Mr. Pompeo had overruled the State Department’s own regional and military experts. President Trump himself echoed this logic when asked about the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, claiming that the Saudis are spending “$110 billion” on military equipment. A former lobbyist for the arms manufacturer Raytheon leads Mr. Pompeo’s legislative affairs staff.  


>**The relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only strengthened with the intensification of the war. The war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve. The conflict between Saudi-led forces and the Houthi insurgents had helped Al Qaeda and the Islamic State’s Yemen branch “deepen their inroads across much of the country.”** 

---  

>American engagement there has not been authorized by Congress, and is therefore unconstitutional.  

>1. the war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States. 
>2. the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert authority over matters of war.

>[Senate Joint Resolution 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/54) calls on the president to withdraw from the Saudi-led war in Yemen.  

>The Senate voted 55 to 44 to delay consideration of the resolution. Next month, I intend to bring that resolution back to the floor.   

>The brutal murder of Mr. Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional. Human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers.  

-Bernie, [Oct 24^th '18](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/24/opinion/bernie-sanders-saudi-arabia-war-yemen.html)",Chartis,e8zbjei,SandersForPresident
Nothing better than watching MAGA chuds defend a radical Islamic terror state.,BopTheDrass,e90pk5g,SandersForPresident
"The Yemen war is being fought for a reason - the Houthi rebels performed a military coup against the government of Yemen. Saudi Arabia and it's allies are trying to restore that government.

Here is their banner that they march under: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_Houthis

That Arabic writing reads:

God is the Greatest
Death to America
Death to Israel
Curse on the Jews
Victory to Islam

Come on. ""Curse on the Jews""? Do we want these people in power? Does Bernie?",DriveIn8,e8z9jj1,SandersForPresident
"Is a coup inherently forbidden though?

If Saudi Arabia and friends cease interference, the Houthis might win, but if that leads to the end of fighting and the humanitarian disaster, that's still real progress for the Yemeni people at this point.

As for their banner, let's consider them by their actions, not their slogans. To be perfectly honest, there's not one group in the region, and this includes Israel, who's an uncompromised reflection of our morals and norms, nor should we expect there to be one. If we have to pick from a bad lot, maybe ""the choice that minimizes suffering for the locals"" is a valid choice.",Bounty1Berry,e8zi6yi,SandersForPresident
"> If we have to pick from a bad lot, maybe ""the choice that minimizes suffering for the locals"" is a valid choice.

I 100% agree with this, but I cannot imagine that that involves letting Team Antisemitism run things. It's also not the argument being made by Senator Sanders, who is for cutting off arms sales to the Saudis and letting social Darwinism take it's blood-soaked course.",DriveIn8,e8zkwrt,SandersForPresident
">[52% of Republicans support Medicare For All](https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/usa-election-progressives/)  

This is specifically those that 

>said pursuing the policy should be a high priority for the next Congress.  

Wow.",Chartis,e8zj97m,SandersForPresident
"I thought it was at 52%, has the support dropped due to trumplicans buying into his lies?",sasiralla,e8zm4c2,SandersForPresident
can you post the entire article on here? would love to read it.,HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e8zjf9u,SandersForPresident
"52% support it, 40% make it a high/top priority. ",filmantopia,e8zznnd,SandersForPresident
"it could be because they didn't list it as their #1 concern, maybe push it later is my best guess ",HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e8zmlm9,SandersForPresident
no reason for Pelosi to not take a vote on it. I mean 40% Republicans want it then house should vote on it first week ,sasiralla,e8zq3qu,SandersForPresident
40% of Republican voters - 0% of Republican ~~special interest tools~~  politicians,hueylongsgiantdong,e8zscu2,SandersForPresident
She is a minority leader and might not be Speaker of the house in 2018 if the Democrats decide to vote for a new leader. and the GOP politicians do not support it in congress. ,HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e8zu64f,SandersForPresident
"whatever happens, there HAS to be a vote on M4A so that we can purge corporate dems out. Any dem opposing it should be primaried",sasiralla,e8zy50o,SandersForPresident
"There are only a few Republicans in my mind good for anything (Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, Mayor LaGuardia, Fighting Bob LaFollette) and all of them died decades before I was born",hueylongsgiantdong,e91d6a0,SandersForPresident
"Some people are just too far gone, the best you can do is ignore them and focus on people who are reasonable and willing to hear you out or at least have a civil debate. Clinton hacks are the worst especially the ones that blindly believe anything the MSM tells them including the idea that Bernie or Bernie bros are why Clinton lost which is the dumbest argument I've ever heard.",TomBurcher,e90dqaa,SandersForPresident
"I run into voters like these too. Always keep in mind what it is they're trying to get from you: the image of a raging, sexist, racist, ""Bernie bro"" trying to mansplain politics to them. Respectfully disagree and move on. 

They are loud but a minority. Bernie is ranked America's most popular politician year after year. Keep talking about the things that bring us together. Stay focused on the issues and we'll win.",GrandpaChainz,e91bucc,SandersForPresident
"A lot of people who think that the war on drugs is necessary have not seen the effects of it in Latin America.

It's become a literal war there.",HammerBioLizard,e90n18t,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/amaaggregator] [All Bernie Sanders AMA Responses](https://www.reddit.com/r/AMAAggregator/comments/9tsk1w/all_bernie_sanders_ama_responses/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8ys9cn,SandersForPresident
Nice formatting.,Chartis,e904z0a,SandersForPresident
"You mean his staff's responses.

I do NOT see Bernie answering the book question like that.  This AMA was a joke.
",flickerkuu,e8zniil,SandersForPresident
Thanks. :),Testastic,e91ij1n,SandersForPresident
"personally, I can see Bernie saying that",handsupTrump,e90g82l,SandersForPresident
">Congress is supposed to represent the American people. Instead, due to our corrupt campaign finance system, they represent the wealthy and powerful donors and lobbyists who can spend enormous sums of money to influence our government. We must create a government and a campaign finance system that represents ALL Americans, not just a handful of wealthy and powerful few.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157430399777908)


---  

TL;DR:

* Staffers who rely more heavily on conservative and business interest groups for policy information have more skewed perceptions of constituent opinion.  

* Elected officials are more responsive to interest groups and wealthier individuals than to average citizens state politicians from both parties systematically overestimate the conservatism of their constituents.  

* Senior legislative staff have very skewed perceptions of public attitudes... egocentric bias and interest group contact, especially with conservative groups and businesses, may drive some of the mismatch between staffer perceptions and actual public opinion.  

* Staffers whose personal opinions deviated from their constituents’ opinions were less accurate in their estimates of district and state preferences.  

* Staffers who reported greater contact with corporate and ideologically conservative interest groups over liberal and mass-based citizen groups were less likely to get their constituents’ preferences right.  

* 45% of senior legislative staffers report having changed their opinion about legislation after a group gave their Member a campaign contribution.  

* Staffers are more likely to interpret correspondence from businesses as being more representative of their constituents’ preferences than correspondence from ordinary constituents.  

* 80% of senior legislative aides reported that constituent opinion was “extremely” or “very” important in their recommendations to their bosses, most had only a limited ability to characterize what their constituents actually preferred.  

* The prospect of more competitive elections does not appear to spur greater congruence between senior staffers and their constituents.  

* Congress may seem so unresponsive to ordinary citizens is that interest group lobbying and campaign contributions skew staffers’ perceptions of their constituents.  

* Staff may substitute interest groups’ and donors’ positions for constituent preferences.  
",Chartis,e8zw9di,SandersForPresident
"I'm predicting a blue wave, gaining 50 house seats and the senate including 10 justice democrats. My reasoning is that the democrats have an insane money advantage in competitive races, double sometimes triple what the republican has and Trump is incredibly unpopular, presidents often lose the house by a lot in midterms. Also polling shows a 8-9 point lead by the democrats but I believe it will be closer to 10-12 points because those polls are of likely voters but this year is seeing insane early and young voter turn out indicating a surge of unlikely voters who wouldn't be factored into polling. As for the Justice democrats I just checked the polling on each race and its rating according to 538, there are 7 solid JDs, 1 toss up JD and 6 underdog JDs with there race rated as likely R, the rest are massive long shots, so I'm predicting 10 win overall. Finally regarding Bernie 2020, I believe he will officially announce either soon after the midterms in time with his book release or early 2019, I imagine it will definitely be earlier than he announced last time because its a completely different race with 30 possible contenders so getting in early is important. ",TomBurcher,e908jc8,SandersForPresident
" 

House. I think we will definitely get a majority. Maybe 30-35 seats? I'm surprisingly optimistic.

Senate. No way we get a majority. Even if Rosen, Beto, and Bredsen miraculously win. I feel like Heidkamp loses, and one of Macaskill/Donnely loses.

Justice Democrats: Right now we have 7 on lock (Tlaib, AOC, Pressley, Oman, Grijalva). We can at worst get 7 wins...and probably at best maybe hit 15-16 wins.

The ones that have a chance right now are Ammar-Campa Najjar (down by 3 in the polls), Kara Eastman, Matt Morgan, Jess King (Only down by 4 right now in a +27 trump district), James Thompson, Rob Davidson (down by 6 in the last poll, in another +18 red district), Audrey Denney (who outraised her opponent in a +23 red district), and Randy Bryce. (Sarah Smith is a wild card right now). I feel like everyone else not mentioned is essentially toast. (The two governors might have a small chance though?)

PCCC/Our Revolution candidates that will definitely make it through: (I'm not sure how legit these candidates are, but they seem okay looking at their websites)  
Jesus ""Chuy"" Garcia  
Veronica Escobar  
Mike Levin

The other thing people don't realize is that there are a ton of sleepers in deep red districts (like a lot of the JD candidates listed). However, there are a ton of our revolution/PCC/PR candidates that are doing a ridiculously good job. Richard Ojeda, JD Scholten (the one against the racist Steve King), Liz Watson, Leslie Cockburn are holding their own in deep red districts. Jess King and Audrey Denney are doing way better than expected. Denney for example, got the local newspaper to endorse her (the Chico news has never endorsed a democrat for like 30+ years). I am hoping that several of them outright win. Otherwise the establishment is going to vulture in for 2020 (kind of like what happened to Doug Applegate).

The other reason why I'm a bit optimistic.

The Intercept wrote an article about how there could be potentially 40+ democratic newcomers that are entering to congress, that do not accept corporate pac money. So there will definitely be a no corporate pac caucus that Alexandria Ocasio Cortez wanted.",isomorphicring,e90d6xx,SandersForPresident
">Given the president’s propensity to lie about almost everything, it is not surprising that Trump is lying about Medicare for All—a proposal which 70 percent of the American people now support.

>Our proposal would not cut benefits for seniors on Medicare, as the president and his Republican allies claim. In fact, we expand benefits to include dental care, vision care and hearing aids. In addition, Medicare for All would eliminate deductibles and copays for seniors, and significantly lower the cost of prescription drugs. And Medicare for All allows all Americans to see the doctors they want, not the doctors their insurance companies have a contract with.

>The president is lying to protect the profits of his friends in the insurance and pharmaceutical industries, but the American people are clear about what they want: to end the international disgrace of being the only major country not to guarantee health care as a right.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157428096872908)",Chartis,e8z7uhg,SandersForPresident
">The Supreme Court on Friday night refused to halt a novel lawsuit filed by young Americans that attempts to force the federal government to take action on climate change, turning down a request from the Trump administration to stop it before trial.

>The suit, filed in 2015 by 21 young people who argue that the failure of government leaders to combat climate change violates their constitutional right to a clean environment, is before a federal judge in Oregon. It had been delayed while the Supreme Court considered the emergency request from the government.

>Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch would have stopped the suit. The other justices did not indicate how they voted on the government’s request.

>The court’s three-page order said the government should seek relief from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit. It noted the government’s assertion that the “suit is based on an assortment of unprecedented legal theories, such as a substantive due process right to certain climate conditions, and an equal protection right to live in the same climate as enjoyed by prior generations.”

>The justices acknowledged that the 9th Circuit had previously turned down the government but said those decisions came when there was a “likelihood that plaintiffs’ claims would narrow as the case progressed.” That no longer seems the case, the unsigned opinion said, suggesting the possibility that the 9th Circuit might see things differently now.

>And it left open the possibility that the government could return to the Supreme Court.
Close

>The goal of the lawsuit is to compel the government to scale back its support for fossil fuel extraction and production and to support policies aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming.

>“We’ve been confident throughout this case that we would get to trial, and I believe we will get to trial,” Julia Olson, the attorney for the youths and executive director of Our Children’s Trust, said in an interview with The Washington Post on Friday evening. “We have overcome everything the government has thrown at us. It is not luck. It is the strength of the case and the strength of the evidence and the strength of the legal arguments we are making.”

>The Obama and Trump administrations had repeatedly asked lower courts to dismiss the lawsuit, questioning its merits, saying discovery requests were “burdensome” and arguing that the suit would usurp the authorities of Congress and federal agencies.

>The plaintiffs “seek nothing less than a complete transformation of the American energy system — including the abandonment of fossil fuels — ordered by a single district court at the behest of ‘twenty-one children and youth,’ ” Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco wrote in a brief to the Supreme Court.

>“As the government has maintained since first moving to dismiss this suit in 2016, [the] assertion of sweeping new fundamental rights to certain climate conditions has no basis in the nation’s history and tradition — and no place in federal court.”

>Francisco acknowledged that he was asking for “extraordinary relief” by asking the high court to intervene before a trial began. But he said the unique nature of the lawsuit deserved such an exception.

>If the long trial were allowed to proceed, “it could well be years into the future” before the government could “seek relief from such an egregious abuse of the civil litigation process and violation of the separation of powers.”

>The government has made similar arguments in lower courts, but time and again, judges allowed the case to proceed. The government also went to the Supreme Court this summer seeking a stay, but the court in an unsigned opinion called the request “premature.”

>In a 103-page filing this week intended to keep the trial on track, the plaintiffs argued that the Trump administration would not suffer “irreparable” harm in having to go through with the case.

>“This case clearly poses profoundly important constitutional questions, including questions about individual liberty and standing, the answers to which depend upon the full evaluation of evidence at trial,” the lawyers wrote, adding: “These young plaintiffs, mere children and youth, are already suffering irreparable harm which worsens as each day passes with more carbon dioxide accumulating in the atmosphere and oceans.”

>The young activists also used the chance to once again demand that the courts compel the government to “cease their violation of plaintiffs’ rights, prepare an accounting of the nation’s greenhouse gas emissions, and prepare and implement an enforceable national remedial plan to cease the constitutional violations by phasing out fossil fuel emissions and drawing down atmospheric CO2.”

>Olson said the youth plaintiffs were filing a request with the district court in Oregon for a hearing soon in hopes of moving toward the long-awaited trial.

>Officials at the Department of Justice could not be reached immediately for comment Friday.",Chartis,e8yda4r,SandersForPresident
">grandpa Sanders

>breastfeed

🤔",GrandpaChainz,e8ypdkz,SandersForPresident
"Bernie gave Reddit more time than he did to [TYT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KQ8iLQ4OuE&feature=youtu.be&t=7) & [MSNBC](https://youtu.be/guubQ1c7Jb0?t=275) combined yesterday. And he published [an op-ed](https://www.reformer.com/stories/us-senate-race-still-fighting-for-vermont-values,555341). Also, I'm not certain he did the [interview in Teen Vogue](https://www.teenvogue.com/story/bernie-sanders-2018-midterms-chance-for-young-voters-to-transform-america) yesterday but it kinda sounds like it from the phrasing. Dude is a jackrabbit.",Chartis,e8z1v3g,SandersForPresident
Only losers complaon about crap like that OP. Dont pay them mind.,fights4love,e8yxqyb,SandersForPresident
Right on. Thanks for saying it.,zoolook67,e922o3u,SandersForPresident
"I think more people got upset over his answer to his favorite book turning into him trying to sell his new book. Nothing wrong with advertising and trying to sell something you have made but it comes off as tacky when it gets shoehorned into something like that. When you are asked what your favorite anything is, the answer shouldnt be something you made or did unless the question specifically asked for that. ",STFUandL2P,e8z03xo,SandersForPresident
"Maybe if he actually did the AMA we could agree.

Canned copy and paste bullshit from his staff is what we got, gtfo with your high horse.
",flickerkuu,e8zq6xa,SandersForPresident
Dude answered 12 questions. Quit calling everyone you don’t like a Russian bot. It’s annoying as fuck ,thereisasuperee,e8z2lll,SandersForPresident
Wasn't he on with Chris Hayes too?,joshieecs,e8z82wg,SandersForPresident
"I presume his staff who are around him almost constantly thought that was funny. Bernie is a very funny guy and I suspect he was smiling when he answered. The problem is that gets lost in an AMA without a video.

“My favorite book? Why, my book coming out next month!” *grin*",gideonvwainwright,e8z7ltu,SandersForPresident
wrong. You haven't listened to Bernie much if you don't notice that he repeats himself quite a lot. Not complaining -- but that's the truth. I think it's a good thing.,handsupTrump,e90gv8p,SandersForPresident
"[Yup](https://youtu.be/yuNajVUu2fY?t=273), and even with that added in he dedicated more time to Reddit.

",Chartis,e8z8k8m,SandersForPresident
I fully get that. And if he had followed that statement with any other book as his actual favortie other than his own work then it probably wouldve been seen that way and then he wouldnt have found his comment at -2k votes. ,STFUandL2P,e8z7w2r,SandersForPresident
"THANK YOU! I looked for a clip of this when I saw the tweet about it, but couldn't find one.",joshieecs,e8z8tyr,SandersForPresident
">It’s been a long couple of years. I wanted to highlight a few of my favorite candidates who are on the ballot Tuesday. It’s been beautiful watching some of my best friends (looking at you Assemblywoman [Christine Pellegrino](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45299025_2444506645565008_2806529341435936768_n.jpg?_nc_cat=104&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=da2ed2633c7d97d8827c53bedf78b8a2&oe=5C3D1524) and [Ben Jealous](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45357143_2444506925564980_5402140376632918016_n.jpg?_nc_cat=111&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=6754a424b8bb257ef26be26ed1234489&oe=5C77F97D)) barely take a breath after 2016 and somehow gather more energy and courage to run and run hard and win against the machines - in conservative territory. Then to build friendships with warriors like [Randy Bryce](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45306470_2444506665565006_2560628844398641152_n.jpg?_nc_cat=102&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=df00fc24034db98566217dc8e034510a&oe=5C445A4F) and [Keith Ellison](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45385976_2444506938898312_4069547582441914368_n.jpg?_nc_cat=102&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=40341a551a2c8b5965816977131a308c&oe=5C840404). And [Andrew Gounardes](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45374058_2444512555564417_4351271061665349632_n.jpg?_nc_cat=106&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=2873a92d16e93c45c69aa9f6df043bad&oe=5C76815C)- a friend in so many ways - who after years of hard work is so close to unseating a vile conservative who does not reflect the community. And to see history made with our phenomenal NY candidates ([Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45280446_2444506778898328_7856090505505931264_n.jpg?_nc_cat=100&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=f9753d6045d7b3f897442a4cc9dde26f&oe=5C798F58), [Liuba Grechen Shirley](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45304310_2444506732231666_4661484403287916544_n.jpg?_nc_cat=104&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=9d1b9531fc0776b50e61ff049c8e6b5b&oe=5C3CC08C)-Congress, [Jessica Ramos](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45359202_2444507012231638_2262225404414656512_n.jpg?_nc_cat=108&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=fd69c81fc31a337a15b608b87bde441c&oe=5C3F78FA) for New York State Senate, [Alessandra Biaggi](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45290531_2444506788898327_7604022083244261376_n.jpg?_nc_cat=100&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=844ce1221a6d6aed94e749e44b124399&oe=5C752521), [Zellnor Myrie](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45263857_2444506862231653_6250721658286374912_n.jpg?_nc_cat=101&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=ad6c61145542a065018eda6a622354d1&oe=5C7409D6) for New York pictured here). And one of the most fascinating races that we should use as a model for organizing is [Jess King](https://scontent-yyz1-1.xx.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/45327425_2444506855564987_3222287462793478144_n.jpg?_nc_cat=104&_nc_ht=scontent-yyz1-1.xx&oh=a03f1e9e130588325cc7aac9ab2c08ad&oe=5C7A86F4) for Congress in PA. Let’s win across the board, progressive family. And for all you outside these districts, please make calls and see how you can volunteer. Much love to our leaders and the warriors fighting in each of the campaigns. Let’s win this!!!! VOTE TUESDAY 11/6!!❤️❤️❤️💪🏼💪🏽💪🏾💪🏿💪🏻",Chartis,e8zxx5x,SandersForPresident
"Maryland 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://voterservices.elections.maryland.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration/InstructionsStep1): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e90eiuc,SandersForPresident
"**Bernie's Replies:**

----  


Let me thank all of you for joining us today and asking very great questions. My plea is please get out and vote and bring your friends your family members and co-workers to the polls. We are now living under the most dangerous president in the modern history of this country. We have got to end one-party rule in Washington and elect progressive governors and state officials. Let’s revitalize democracy. Let’s have a very large voter turnout on Tuesday. Let’s stand up and fight back. Thank you all very much. Please make a plan to vote here: [https://iwillvote.com/](https://iwillvote.com/)

---  


In my view, the younger generation is the most progressive generation in the history of our country. They are leaders in the fight against sexism, racism, homophobia, religious bigotry, and discrimination. They also understand, even though Trump does not, that climate change is very real and has to be addressed. This younger generation, will have a lower standard of living than their parents if we don’t turn the economy around and create jobs that pay decent wages. I have talked to too many college graduates who are earning 10 or 11 bucks an hour - and that is not acceptable. Further, millions of young people have left school deeply in debt and are struggling hard to pay off those debts. Low wage jobs and high debt makes for a difficult existence. My hope is, that young people in response to these issues will become increasingly involved in the political process and stand up for their rights. The young people can turn this country around if they run for office, if they vote and if they get involved. I very much hope they will.  

---  


What makes me hopeful in these very difficult times is that I get around the country a lot and meet extraordinarily wonderful people. In the last two weeks, as part of this campaign, I will have visited 12 states in support of Democrats and progressive candidates. I have met with hundreds of people who are working day and night working to improve their communities and these people give me a great sense of hope for the future.  

---  


My favorite book at the moment is a brand new book that I wrote that will be coming out in a couple weeks called “Where We Go From Here” and this book talks about the work that I and other progressives have been doing over the last two years in opposition to Trump’s reactionary agenda and how we go forward in creating a government that works for all, and not just the wealthy few.

---  


I think there is a great deal to learn from many countries around the world especially Scandinavian countries. These countries – Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden – provide healthcare to all people as a right, have excellent universal child care programs and make higher education available to all their young people at no or little cost. Further, they have been aggressive in taking on climate change and moving towards sustainable energy. These countries understand it's important to have a government that works for all of their people, not just the people on top, and that’s a lesson we must learn for our country.  

---  

I love Vermont because of its natural beauty. When you visit us, you will find that we are truly one of the most beautiful states in the country and that we have four special seasons. Right now, the leaves are changing which is a beautiful time to visit Vermont. Further, we have a very down to earth type of politics in which candidates at the local, state and federal level remain close to the people. I think it’s fair to say that in Vermont at one level or another I have personally met a good percentage of the people in our state. Lastly, I’m proud that in recent years Vermont has developed one of the most progressive election systems in the country making it very easy for people to vote. 

---  

This a very important question and an  issue I’ve been working very hard on for the last year. In fact, a resolution I brought the Senate floor with Senators Lee and Murphy called for ending in the war in Yemen. That war is an unbelievable and horrific humanitarian disaster. That country is facing a cholera epidemic and widespread famine. We should not be allied with a dictatorship like Saudi Arabia who is leading the effort in that war. Further, in my view, that war is unconstitutional because Congress, which has the war-making authority in our form of government, has not authorized it. Let’s get out of Yemen as soon as possible and help bring humanitarian help to that struggling country.

Saudi Arabia is a brutal dictatorship which does not tolerate dissent, which treats women as third class citizens and which is run by a handful of multi-billionaires. I strongly condemn Trump’s affection for the rulers of Saudi Arabia, and if we are to avoid a never ending war in that part of the world, it is imperative that we develop an even-handed policy toward Iran and Saudi Arabia. 

---  

This is a huge issue which I am deeply immersed in. Not only do we have to make colleges and universities tuition-free but we have to provide help to the tens of millions of Americans who are struggling with outrageous levels of student debt. Right now, there are millions of Americans who have $50,000 or $100,000 of debt and struggle to pay that debt often at high interest rates. If Trump and his Republican colleagues can provide a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1% we can make public colleges and universities tuition-free and substantially lower the burden of student debt on millions of Americans. 

---  


I think we need to make a lot of improvements we have got to appreciate the young people of this country are the future of America. That means ending the absurdity that in the wealthiest country in the history of the world, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on earth. Children cannot learn if they’re hungry or homeless or if their families are struggling with drug addiction. Further, we have got to respect educators in this country and make sure that we attract the best and brightest to the teaching profession by paying our teachers good wages and providing them with good working conditions. Unbelievably, in America today, there are states like Oklahoma and Colorado where kids are going to school 4 days a week because of budgetary constraints. How insane is that? Further, we need to move toward universal, affordable childhood pre-K. The bottom line is: instead of giving tax breaks to billionaires and large corporations we need to fund our schools and respect educators.

---

When I was a young man, I did smoke marijuana on several occasions. For me, the result was a lot of coughing. Having said that, I strongly believe that we should move toward the legalization of marijuana because that issue is an integral part of our failed criminal justice system. Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country, and there are millions of Americans who have police records because they were arrested for possessing marijuana. And when that happens, it can be harder to get a job or an apartment. If we are serious about criminal justice reform in this country, we must move towards the legalization of marijuana and that is something I’ll fight for.

---

I would hope that there would be widespread support in Congress, as I know there is among the American people for the legislation that I’ve introduced, which would guarantee healthcare to all Americans through a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program. The first year of the 4-year phase-in program calls for lowering the eligibility age from 65 to 55 and for covering all the children in America. I would hope we can get widespread bipartisan support for that. Further, all Americans, whether they’re conservative or progressive understand we’re being ripped off by the pharmaceutical industry, which charge us by far the most per country. The American people want us to stand up to the drug industry and I hope very much we gain bipartisan support to do that.  

---

It is incomprehensible to me that we have a president who is not only a racist, sexist, homophobe, xenophobe and religious bigot - but a president who rejects science. The debate over climate change is over. The scientific community is almost 100% united in telling us that climate change is real, caused by human activity, and is already doing devastating harm to our country and the world. We must as a nation lead the world in moving aggressively toward such sustainable energy as wind, solar and geothermal and when we do that, we will not only combat climate change but create millions of good paying jobs and lower electric bills. We must also move toward the electrification of our transportation system and rebuild our crumbling rail system. The United States should lead the world in combating climate change not have a president who rejects science and works with the fossil fuel industry.

---

This is the most important midterm election in the modern history of this country and it is enormously important than young people come out and vote. In fact, in my view, if young people vote at the same percentage as older people do we can transform this country and move aggressively towards, economic justice, social justice, racial justice, and environmental justice. Do not sit out this election. It it too important. Please vote and bring your friends and co-workers to the polls.

---  

If Democrats take control the House or the Senate we must move to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour. We must immediately lower prescription drug costs in this country and we must work aggressively towards Medicare for All. We also have to take on Trump in transforming our energy system away from fossil fuel toward energy efficiency and sustainable energy as we combat the great threat of climate change.",Chartis,e8xh6ad,SandersForPresident
shit man he has done NOTHING to get waluigi in as a playable character,chipper747,e8xjpo2,SandersForPresident
I liked the AmA for the most part but some of the answers were very staffer produced card board cut out sounding.,WindWalkerWalking,e8xml43,SandersForPresident
Holy shit! Over 94000 upvotes! I didn’t even know this was happening I feel so mad for missing out on this,Harvickfan4Life,e926old,SandersForPresident
Please create a website which keeps track of what politicians voted for in the past and also shows how much donor money they received and from who,abcde123edcba,e8xenki,SandersForPresident
The AMA thread is being brigaded hard.,nueve,e8xjrrh,SandersForPresident
"> My favorite book at the moment is a brand new book that I wrote that will be coming out in a couple weeks called “Where We Go From Here” and this book talks about the work that I and other progressives have been doing over the last two years in opposition to Trump’s reactionary agenda and how we go forward in creating a government that works for all, and not just the wealthy few.

",HiloHola,e8zij60,SandersForPresident
Are you still answering questions?,cheeburga32,e8xq3jo,SandersForPresident
I love that this comment is pulling ahead in this sub lmao,trigaderzad2606,e8xmdhp,SandersForPresident
[downticket.com](https://downticket.com) does most of that.  They have an app to help you keep track of your local politicians.,jake3030,e8xfvro,SandersForPresident
"https://www.opensecrets.org/donor-lookup

It's for looking up cashflow going the other direction (*lookup business entities / names of people who might donate millions to see who they're donating money to*)

I don't think it's set up to correlate directly against voting records.  
[*edit: how someone votes for policy, not voter registrations*]

Three points:

1. That's a request for service / features, not a question.
2. https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/9tm9oo/i_am_senator_bernie_sanders_ask_me_anything/  
(*the ask me anything thread is over on /r/IAmA/ not here*)
3. I think that'd be a good website or mode to enable, so if anyone sets that up (*on a new site?*) or tweaks the features over on opensecrets: cool.

---

**Unrelated:** I don't think tracking cash flow would directly help with untangling how or why regulatory capture occurs: many positions are appointments, so transparency for who funds a campaign isn't straightforward. Best you can do in that situation is try to figure out which people are in charge of an organization and then attempt to research any sort of revolving door where they exit the industry and then go to work as a regulator & vice versa.

I don't think is the real ""ask me anything"" thread, but if bernie or someone affiliated with the campaign or movement or a moderator sees this:

Any specific plans to address this stuff? There needs to be transparency for lawmakers and regulators.",kuzetsa,e8xfxxw,SandersForPresident
"> Please create a website which keeps track of what politicians voted for in the past

the senate website has a record of the votes taken by the senate

https://www.senate.gov/legislative/votes.htm

the house of reps. has the same thing, it starts from the 90s.

http://clerk.house.gov/legislative/legvotes.aspx",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8xtul0,SandersForPresident
It's not brigading. It's typical r/politics. It's been full of establishment-minded posters ever since 2017 and forward. So of course he's not gonna get the warm welcome he got back in 2016. That sub's never been the same since.,crazytownbananapants,e8xm0qr,SandersForPresident
"No it’s not, maybe everybody just doesn’t 100% agree with you?",Cain008,e8yh4g4,SandersForPresident
"The man wrote a book he's proud of. And given that he's been campaigning 14 hours a day for months on end for us, I'll cut him some slack. Hell, millions gave him $27 bucks and expected only his efforts in return (which was worth every penny and even more desperately needed today). Being a writer is a hell of a lot of work, especially considering [where he works.](https://i.imgur.com/b5TnWAR.jpg) And his money is put to good use, Bernie personally financed [The Sanders Institute's](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/mission-statement) startup.

>A vital democracy requires an informed electorate, civil discourse and bold ideas. The mission of the Sanders Institute is to revitalize democracy by actively engaging individuals, organizations and the media in the pursuit of progressive solutions to economic, environmental, racial and social justice issues.

Kudos to Bernie for being so industrious in addition to his solid work as a Senator. He's revitalizing American democracy by leading a political revolution and doin' a damn fine job. I'm grateful for his efforts and am glad for his thoughts & his books. In addition to what he shared during the time he spent in the AMA (which was more then he spent that day on TYT & MSNBC combined) providing his thoughts for free, I'm really interested in where we go from here. If a poorly received Reddit reply is what being latched onto by his opponents (which pales in comparison to how well received his other remarks were several times over) then he's in good shape & an ascending champion.  

In addition to picking up a copy, consider going to your local library's contact page to ask they order in copies for those that can't afford them:  

>* [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) ISBN 9781250163264 
>* [Our Revolution](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250132925) ISBN 9781250132925
>* [Bernie Sanders Guide to Political Revolution](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250138903) ISBN 9781568585536
>* [An Outsider in the White House](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781859848715) ISBN 9781859848715  
>* [The Speech: On Corporate Greed and the Decline of Our Middle Class](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781568585536) ISBN 9781568585536
>* [Bernie Speaks - Speeches by Bernie Sanders](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781979667630) ISBN 9781979667630
>* [How Bernie Won](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250144751) ISBN 9781250144751",Chartis,e8znaz9,SandersForPresident
Bernie is done replying in the AMA.,Chartis,e8xqb2p,SandersForPresident
"And you also have folks from The_Dumbass calling him a commie fuck tax fraud along with your standard anti-Semitism. This website was a mistake.

EDIT: And to /u/agricflair who commented with ""well if t_d is the dumbass what is this? The_Bernouts? Yall got played and continue to get played. Buy my book though hehehehe"" before deleting it,

1. I won't claim to know anything about this sub. I'm not on it and came because this was linked in his AMA. Check my post history all you want, this is probably the only S4P thread I've been in. That isn't a condemnation of this sub though.

2. Bernie's shilling of his book in his AMA was pretty slimy and corny, but at least he is capable of writing and reading unlike the subhuman cretin in the oval office that has to have someone else write The Art of The Deal (not exactly high literature) for him. Trump's two favorite books are the bible which he has definitely not read in its entirety and his own book which he had someone else write for him.

3. Sick 9 day old account, dude. It's literally just pure cancer across several subs, being a cunt in political threads and being a cunt in video game threads. Making fun of people, making bullshit arguments in defense of The_Donald (which is a hate sub that encourages fake news, violence, brigading, ignorance, and bigotry), and trying to peddle some weak conspiracy about the MAGAbomber



If 4chan ""learned its lesson"" in retaining nonsensical trash content for nonsensical trash people like you say, go back there you fucking waste.",chipper747,e8xn146,SandersForPresident
">full of establishment backed astroturfing efforts.

The main narratives in that sub are heavily controlled by whoever took over after CTR shut down. ",digiorno,e928tbm,SandersForPresident
"Remember = if someone doesn't agree with you,  they're a nazi.",Georg_Reshetov,e8ysv0p,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8yyhqs,SandersForPresident
Russian Nazi bot brigader capitalist ,agemma,e8z66oe,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8z5dcl,SandersForPresident
">Trump is getting very, very nervous because he knows with your help on November 6th, Andrew Gillum is going to be elected the next governor of Florida.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/videos/2218646778350436/)",Chartis,e909cci,SandersForPresident
"[@billmckibben](https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1058872350580658177):  

* A really superb video from HS students asking voters to actually take their interests into account. If you care about the future, you better care about climate change   

---

1. [Interactive impacts of climate change](https://interactive.carbonbrief.org/impacts-climate-change-one-point-five-degrees-two-degrees)
2. http://www.youthvgovthefilm.com",Chartis,e906wcq,SandersForPresident
">13 states, held 35 rallies & meetings. There is a lot of enthusiasm out there.    

---  

>What we are fighting for is:  

>* not Democrat vs. Republican  
>* the future of American democracy  
>* against a President who  
>  * has debased the political process  
>  * who is a pathological liar  
>  * who is trying to divide the American people up  

>It is absolutely imperative that we have the largest voter turnout in a mid-term election in American history. 

>* Young people  
>* Working people  
>* People who can't make it on 8 or 9 bucks an hour  
>* People who have no health care  
>* People who are worried about the future of our planet  
>* Women who demand to control their own bodies rather than have the government do it for them  
>* The Latino community  
>* The immigrant community  

>We need a massive uprising in this country of people coming out and voting and ending this terrible one-party-rule  

---  

>You cannot ignore the ugliness of what is taking place in the White House. There are a lot of conservative Republicans who would disagree with somebody like me on every issue who understand that it is hard to raise their kids in a nation when you have a President who lies all of the time and who's a bully. You can't ignore who Trump is and what he is doing.  

>On the other hand it is not good enough to just run an anti-Trump campaign. We have got to be talking about:  

>* Health care, Medicare For All  
>* Raising the minimum wage to a living wage: $15/h  
>* Climate change and the transformation of our energy system  
>* Income & wealth inequality: demand the wealthy and large corporations startpaying their fair share of taxes  

>Good policy issues, good politics.  

---  

>Trump is something different who will do anything, say anything in order to gain power. And while he's dividing us up he's busy giving tax breaks to the rich and trying to throw millions of people off the health insurance that they have.  

>It is imperative we rally the American people not only against Trump but around a progressive agenda which demands that government works for all of us, not just wealthy campaign  contributors.

-Bernie Sanders, Nov 2^nd '18
",Chartis,e8z9xm5,SandersForPresident
Ikr? That's what gets me about Cruz bringing attention to this... So... Beto hates America because his team helps poor brown people? What monsters.,BetterCalldeGaulle,e8yh8bh,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e8yg0yu,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): October 22-November 2, 2018 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e8yx1qr,SandersForPresident
The Beta is getting DESPERATE!!!,captainmo017,e8yhtj1,SandersForPresident
Why don’t they show the same level of concern for poor brown people here legally?!?  Oh yeah... trump derangement syndrome.  They will only break campaign finance laws for brown people that are higher on the liberal caste system.,Fuck____Fuck,e8yq7br,SandersForPresident
Umm I'm pretty sure the party cutting social services for the the poor and programs like meals on wheels is the villain on that front too.,BetterCalldeGaulle,e8yqzvx,SandersForPresident
White liberals are racist against brown people that talk like this - https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=o_jgRH9BnZA,Fuck____Fuck,e8yr6o0,SandersForPresident
"The guy is entitled to his views doesn't mean I think he's right. Any more than I think you're right. Hard facts do not support trickle down economics. Evidence for party support for minority communities doesn't support the GOP and it's voting policies in places like Georgia. 

Going to bed since it's 3am and I actually have to work a bit tomorrow.

Remember to be kind to people, even the strangers.  :)",BetterCalldeGaulle,e8ys3zb,SandersForPresident
"When you raise the minimum wage everyone who is making slightly more will also get a wage increase. There is a little bit of inflation and prices go up, but it is WAY less than the economic growth that comes from working class people at or slightly above minimum wage having and spending more money. Your husband will almost certainly benefit unless he is directly employing a lot of workers on minimum wage salaries.

&#x200B;

I have no idea about how to address corrupt unions. Good people see the union sucking, so they get disgusted and don't want to participate, and then the only people left are the corrupt ones. I am very confident that his job would pay less if it was not unionized. If enough people at the job hate their union they are allowed to switch to a better union or start their own.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",hueylongsgiantdong,e8zfary,SandersForPresident
"> . I strongly support a living wage for everyone...but what is the line of thought for how raising the minimum wage affects everyone else?

It's possible your husband's earning will be closer to those at the bottom. Can you ask him why he is upset by this though ? Because it seems rather strange. He'd rather see people starve and struggle to live so he can have an inflated sense of self-worth ? 

> My husband is not in the union because he's an engineer, but he always talks about how the workers are just wasting their money. The union is not on their side

This seems like typical work place propaganda, see Wall-Mart

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_VL4gqrCHc

While some unions can be relatively bad, there generally is some form of democracy and power to reform the leadership. This is rarely true in the work place. So a basic question would be, who is more likely to be on ""your"" side ? Fellow workers or the bosses or owners of a company. 

> The union is not on their side. The average workers' ""high"" rate of pay is due to the company, not the union.

How would that even work ? Companies always want to pay less in salary to workers. Only necessity will force them to raise wages, or maybe a very generous boss. But that seems extremely rare. Unions just form a way to negotiate collectively (were this is allowed or facilitated). 

> that rate of pay is decided by the union.

How is that even possible ? A company can just pay more money to its workers if it wanted to. 

> Is there any initiative to clean up corrupt unions?

I am not sure if you are kidding or not, but police can look into union books and they are under extreme scrutiny. Unions are literally under almost constant attack. Not just ""corrupt"" ones, all fucking unions in the country. 

No offense, and best not to say this to your husband, but he seems completely tricked and fooled by anti-union propaganda. Or he needs people to earn less than him and possibly not have a decent life just to have a sense of self-worth. This is rather sad and troubling. ",Bardali,e8zh7e2,SandersForPresident
"There's [A Selfish Argument for Making the World a Better Place](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ) that's quite convincing.  

And also [recent evidence that his wage would have a greater chance of improving](https://i.imgur.com/R0irWTq.png) as well:  

>[After two quarters, about 30% of continuing workers have transitioned above the $15 threshold.](https://boingboing.net/2018/10/28/fight-for-15.html)

-[Economists reverse claims that $15 Seattle minimum wage hurt workers, admit it was largely beneficial](https://sci-hub.tw/downloads/668a/10.3386@w25182.pdf#view=FitH)  

>The federal government has to use YOUR tax dollars to pay for food stamps, medicaid, public housing, etc. for the millions of folks who work for billion dollar companies but only make $9/hr and can't afford to live on that.

>Your tax dollars are paying for welfare for people who are employed by companies that are worth billions, yet you're opposed to raising the minimum wage so that your tax dollars can be used more effectively?   

-u/relevantlife  

---  

And as for corruption: it's a worldwide mental health epidemic and should be treated as such. Though we're better off to have organizations such as governments that can be influenced by constituents rather than to go it alone against big money interests that are legally mandated to put majority shareholder profits (and therefore CEO bonuses) over workers' best interests. 

>The average workers' ""high"" rate of pay is due to the company, not the union. 

That's something you've heard but with the amount of [anti-union propaganda](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/warren-sanders-criticize-amazons-distribution-of-anti-union-video-at-whole-foods) being pushed I'd be surprised if it was true.  

If workers want integral representation it's imperative to get involved. If we don't put the effort into ruling ourselves somebody else will. For a healthy intake of the good unions can accomplish you may want to follow [@NNUBonnie](https://twitter.com/NNUBonnie) or get in contact with the [AFL-CIO](https://aflcio.org/what-unions-do)",Chartis,e8zhts6,SandersForPresident
"I want to correct some of what has been said.  

>When you raise the minimum wage everyone who is making slightly more will also get a wage increase.  

This is simply not true and not even possible. [Even for very large companies.](https://beinglibertarian.com/mcdonalds-and-the-minimum-wage/)  

>It's possible your husband's earning will be closer to those at the bottom. Can you ask him why he is upset by this though ? Because it seems rather strange. He'd rather see people starve and struggle to live so he can have an inflated sense of self-worth ? 

It reduces his chance of getting a raise, if he even still has a job.  
""It is selfish to keep your own, but not to take from others""

>Seattle, specifically [this link](https://boingboing.net/2018/10/28/fight-for-15.html) that was posted.  

[1](https://www.forbes.com/sites/modeledbehavior/2015/08/20/higher-minimum-wages-in-san-francisco-and-seattle-mean-fewer-restaurant-jobs/#13688d895820)  
[2](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/seattle-15-minimum-welfare/)  
[3](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2015/08/10/seattles-15-an-hour-measure-the-unemployment-effects-and-there-they-are/#545892c1114c)  
[4](http://www.econlib.org/library/Columns/y2014/Murphyminimumwage.html)  
People lost jobs. Others dropped hours to keep their ""low wage"" benefits.   

Higher minimum wages do not work.  
Bernie should know this since he likes to speak so highly of Scandinavian countries. Most do not have minimum wages.    
Switzerland turned down a $25/hr minimum wage because they knew it would hurt the economy. 

There is a deeper issue here and that is ""inflation"". The US desperately needs to get it under control. Once we do that, the minimum wage will not be an issue.  
Maybe somebody should have asked him about that during the AMA instead of setting up a promotion for his book. 




",HarrisJB78,e8zs39y,SandersForPresident
Thanks for a respectful answer :),Cassakane,e91iahe,SandersForPresident
"Wow. I wanted a real answer not an attack. Do you really think that my incredibly selfish husband is the only one with similar concerns? Does it make sense to push people away by attacking them, or to educate them and draw them closer to your side? 

I wanted to know a really *good* explanation to give to my husband. My husband who will be voting a straight democrat ticket and will vote for Bernie if he runs. It doesn't really seem like a good idea to tell him that he is a selfish bastard for wondering what a minimum wage increase will do to struggling middle class families. I'd much rather have a really good explanation. Something based of data. I guess I should have tried some other subreddit. 


And my husband isn't anti-union or falling for propaganda. He's observing what is going on at the factory where he works. This is the real world, not all unions are perfect. I'm not saying that the union is doing anything criminal. But from what my husband sees they are taking 25 cents an hour from employees and the employees aren't getting anything from it. Our daughter is one of those employees. ",Cassakane,e91i4ri,SandersForPresident
"Hi, I think I read all of the long explanations that you gave on Bernie's AMA. So, thanks for all of the work you have done answering questions and thanks for answering mine. ",Cassakane,e91ihlt,SandersForPresident
"> Wow. I wanted a real answer not an attack.

It is a real answer. Because I heard those arguments a million times before. It's literally anti-union propaganda. Are all unions good ? No, they are not. But that was not what you were writing. 

And the other stuff too, it's just based on nothing. Look at the studies on the effect of the minimum wage. This is about employment levels (""ahh if we raise wages, people will lose jobs"")

https://www.epi.org/publication/the-impact-of-raising-the-federal-minimum-wage-to-12-by-2020-on-workers-businesses-and-the-economy-testimony-before-the-u-s-house-committee-on-education-and-the-workforce-member-forum/

> Most importantly, research has consistently shown that raising the minimum wage boosts the pay of low-wage workers who typically come from low- and moderate-income households. Because these households typically spend a larger portion of their income than wealthier households, the rising wage floor can provide a modest boost to consumer spending, generating new business activity, particularly in lower-income areas where consumer demand is more depressed. And this is true even if some firms have to enact small price increases as a result of the higher minimum wage. Pay raises for low-wage workers resulting from higher minimum wages are vastly larger than any resulting price increases – typically by a factor of more than 10 to 1.7 This is because labor costs are only one piece of businesses’ overall operating costs, and as previously noted, raising pay simultaneously generates savings from higher productivity and lower turnover.

And let me quote you

>  He feels like he has worked really hard to get to the salary level that he is currently at. He feels that if minimum wage is raised, he would then effectively be making less

Which is simply implying that your husband cares more about his relative earnings than about poor people. 

> he is a selfish bastard for wondering what a minimum wage increase will do to struggling middle class families.

If you are struggling, how do you expect poor people on 7.25 to do ? 

Inflation (this is specific to some places in Cali), but i guess it's at least somewhat similar for other places

> Businesses could absorb the remaining payroll cost increases by increasing prices by 0.6 percent through 2023. This price increase is well below the annual inflation rate of 1.8 percent over the past five years. Price increases in restaurants would be 5.1 percent.

http://irle.berkeley.edu/effects-of-a-15-minimum-wage-in-california-and-fresno/


> This is the real world, not all unions are perfect.

At least they are democratic, so if they are not doing a good job your husband or other people can influence it directly. Unlike those who own the company.

> But from what my husband sees they are taking 25 cents an hour from employees and the employees aren't getting anything from it.

Maybe he union is powerless and can't do much, maybe your husband is wrong. I don't know. But I am 99.99% sure that unions are far more often on the side of workers than the company is. 

> Our daughter is one of those employees. 

Tell her to join a fucking union. If she doesn't like the current one she can always join the IWW. 

https://www.theguardian.com/money/2009/mar/23/union-membership-benefits",Bardali,e91lu9m,SandersForPresident
"It is far worse than just the chief pussy grabber, this is Republican / conservative theology to try to disenfranchise the voter turnout.

&#x200B;

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GBAsFwPglw](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GBAsFwPglw)

&#x200B;

Thom Heartman plays a clip of some right-wing pundit saying that he against what he called the 'goo goo' or good government syndrome.  Some people want everyone to vote, but when the voting population goes up, his (their) voting influence goes down. 

theirs also something he said about the majority of people never has, since the beginning of the country, and are not now deciding the outcomes elections.

&#x200B;",unspammenow,e8yp5cf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8y2iob,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8y2k02,SandersForPresident
"Bernie, I'm a 32 year old dude. That said, will you have my babies?",thesilverpig,e8xdcin,SandersForPresident
">This campaign comes down to whether we want:

>* to end one-party-rule in Washington led by a pathological liar.
>* a party to regain control who gave a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1% and tried to throw 32 million people off of the health care that they had.  
>* to continue to have a President who refuses to even acknowledge the reality of climate change let alone do anything about it.  
>* to stand up and elect people to office who'll put a check on a President who is moving us in a very, very bad direction.  

---  

>By Sunday night I'll have been to 13 states throughout this country holding close to 35 different rallies and meetings. We should be afraid in this country that:  

>* we have 30 million people living without any health insurance.  
>* we pay the highest in the world for prescription drugs.  
>* if Republicans retain control they're going to cut Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, & Education.  

>That's a lot to be afraid of, but if we have a high voter turnout you're going to see Democrats regain control over the House, have a shot to win the Senate, and win Governors chairs all over this country. Young people as the most progressive generation in the history of this country have to come out, stand up, and fight for what they believe in.  

---  

>Remember that candidate Trump told you he would not cut Social Security, Medicare, & Medicaid. take a look at his last budget:  

>* Trillion dollar cut in Medicaid  
>* $500 billion in Medicare 
>* $72 billion in the Social Security Trust Fund  

>The time is for us to be afraid of the real problems in this country:  

>* the possible loss of protections for pre-existing conditions  
>* young people not being able to afford to go to college  

---  

>[Trump] lies every day. And he sets the tone for the Republican Party, and they lie. Don't believe them. They're right now going to the Supreme Court to have the Affordable Care Act ruled unconstitutional. Which means all of the protections which now exist for people with pre-existing conditions will be gone.  

---  

>All over the world what we've seen is a significant rebound from the 2008 crash. German, Japan, the United States. Unemployment is low, that's great. On the other hand millions of people today are working for 8 or 9 or 10 bucks an hour and they can't afford to put food on the table. And you got the Trump administration 
>* saying ""maybe we'll even abolish the concept of the minimum wage""
>* trying to throw 32 million people off of the health care that they have   

-Bernie Sanders, Nov 2^nd '18
",Chartis,e8y5nnq,SandersForPresident
LOL at the first response being Neera Tanden trying to downplay the significance of a single-payer supporter coasting to victory in Wisconsin.,KjellAndersen1,e8yb2ue,SandersForPresident
"[Poll](https://t.co/P9mnenSU35)

[Graphic](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dq2nGaEU0AEq37x.jpg)  

Reminder:  [For every minute you spend wasting time reading polls, commit to 5 of GOTV work](https://twitter.com/AriRabinHavt/status/1051325909951762432)

",Chartis,e8xz1yu,SandersForPresident
"Wisconsin 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://elections.wi.gov/voters/absentee): September 24-November 4 

[General Election Voter Registration Deadline](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/registertovote): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/FindMyPollingPlace): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e92v3ns,SandersForPresident
"[Selected highlights:]

>This is the most important midterm election in the modern history of this country. Whether we continue one-party, right-wing reactionary rule in Washington, in which we have a Congress that follows a bigoted, racist, sexist, homophobic president — who also is a pathological liar — or whether we stand up and fight back for justice for all people. That is what is at stake.  

>If we want to change the direction of the country and move toward a system of justice — economic, social, racial, environmental justice — we have got to vote and we have to see young people coming out at a much higher level than they have ever voted in the past.  

---  

>I would say that the major issue that I hear is healthcare. And people understand that the Republicans have not given up on their desire to throw tens of millions of people off the healthcare they currently have.  

>They are now trying to get the Supreme Court to rule the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional, and if that happens, what we’ll see is that people with pre-existing conditions will no longer be able to get the insurance they need at an affordable cost.  

---  

>1. A Medicare-for-all, single-payer system. The first part of that effort — it’s a four-year phase-in — is to lower the age of eligibility for Medicare from 65 to 55 and to cover all of the young people in this country.  

>2. Raise the minimum wage to a living wage: 15 bucks an hour. And I will do everything that I can to make sure that in the first 100 days of a Democratic Congress, we pass a $15 an hour minimum wage.  

>2. Address the crisis of climate change. And that means invest heavily in energy efficiency and sustainable energy.  

---  

>What most Democrats are now talking about is a lot more progressive and meets the needs of working families than was formerly the case.  

>But there are differences of opinion within the Democratic Party. I and others represent the progressive wing. We think the future of the Democratic Party is to stand up with working families, with the middle class, and be prepared to take on the very powerful and wealthy special interests that have so much power over the political process in this country.  

>There is virtual unanimity in the understanding that we have a very, very dangerous president who is trying to divide the American people up. It is absolutely imperative that all of us — not just Democrats, but Republicans and Independents who believe in American democracy, who believe and respect individual rights, who do not want to see this nation divided up — that we come together and elect a Democratic House and a Democratic Senate and Democratic governors on Tuesday.

---  
>I have a 100% pro-choice voting record. And I would say about 95% of Democrats in Congress are pro-choice. We will not be able to support a pro-choice agenda and take on Republicans who are trying to deny a woman the right to control her own body unless Democrats control the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate.  

>If there is somebody whose views on choice might disagree with mine but will be voting to make sure that Democrats control the House and the Senate, yes, I will support that person because it’s absolutely imperative that Democrats control the Congress if we are going to preserve a woman’s right to choose.  

---  

>I think people do not fully appreciate the power that they have. First of all, for young people, it is absolutely imperative that people registered to vote and come out to vote.  

>If people under 30 voted at the same percentage as the general population, we would transform America. The younger generation today is the most progressive generation in the history of this country.  

>But it doesn’t matter what your views are if you’re not active in politics, if you are not voting, if you are not supporting candidates who stand up for what you believe in. It doesn’t matter what you believe unless you are participating in the process and making sure you are electing people whose views are similar to yours.  

>People have got to register, people have got to vote, but that’s not enough. What people should appreciate is that once somebody is elected, that’s not the end of the game. You have got to hold that person accountable.  

>If a few hundred people — which is not all that many — tell a member of Congress or a senator that we want you to attend a town meeting because we’re concerned about student debt, or we’re concerned about climate change, or we’re concerned about sexism and we want you to come out and talk to us at a mutually convenient time, you would be surprised at how many congressmen would say, ‘Yes. Let’s work out a good time and I’ll see you there.’ And then you can put pressure on that member.  

>So, holding elected officials accountable is extraordinarily important.  

-Bernie Sanders, Nov 2^nd '18
",Chartis,e8y0p19,SandersForPresident
"[**Donate to Sanjay Patel**](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/votesanjaypatel)

-No Mega Donor Money

-2016 Bernie delegate

-Pro Medicare For All

-Supports dental, mental, and vision care

-Pro $15/hr wage tied to inflation

-Pro Paid family/sick leave

-Pro Union

-Pro EPA

-Pro Clean Water Act

-Pro Endangered Species Act

-Pro Green Deal

-Anti Charter Schools

-Pro lower rates on student loans

-Pro publicly funded elections

-Anti Private Prisons

-Anti Death Penalty

-Pro Weed

-Pro Social Security

-Anti Social Security Taxable Income Cap

-Pro universal background checks

-Pro VA

-Pro Investigating ICE

-Good on social issues

-Pro Net Neutrality

-Pro broadband

-Pro Green Energy

-Pro Wall St. Tax

-Pro Estate Tax",The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8yf99z,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): October 22-November 2, 2018 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e8xnq6m,SandersForPresident
Phew! Nail biter for sure.,BopTheDrass,e8xhyu0,SandersForPresident
poor result for hallquist so close to the election.,Surporat,e8xitvt,SandersForPresident
unfortully in new england moderate gop governors can get elected.,ChrisRobbins15,e8xzqua,SandersForPresident
I wonder if this will translate to better turnout in the 2020 primaries.,filmantopia,e8xzl4c,SandersForPresident
Poll: http://iop.harvard.edu/spring-2018-national-youth-poll,Chartis,e8x83j3,SandersForPresident
young voters may save the dems butt in this election to give it to trump.,ChrisRobbins15,e8xzvmm,SandersForPresident
"Shaun King is a fellow at the Sanders Institute. Shaun King and Ben Dixon have announced they are launching a progressive media organization called The North Star:

> In 1847, with slavery still in full force, two brave men, Frederick Douglass and Martin Delany (both pictured above), started an abolitionist newspaper called The North Star — named for the star, Polaris, that was often used as a guide for those seeking freedom in the North. While The North Star was originally a print newspaper, we will be launching a news app, a full news website, a collection of podcasts, and an online nightly news broadcast. We’re not just here to change the news — we aim to change the world.

I feel many in the progressive movement would agree that we desperately need more progressive news outlets to help spread the word and to reach as many voters as possible.",Antarctica-1,e8xpxue,SandersForPresident
I want full sauce ,GreatAide,e8u661b,SandersForPresident
"One cultural switch America desperately needs is an erosion of the barrier we place between insult and deception.  When someone tells me a lie, that can lead to much more trouble than when they call me a mean name.  Liars and fools cannot be trusted sources in the future.  

Also, there is nothing even a highly articulate and hateful person could do with words that would offend me more than behaving as if they had the faculties and justification to fill me with false belief.  Prevaricators and hatemongers are villainous to the extent their words put bodies in the ground.  That is infinitely more important than the extent to which adversaries take the bait and shift discussions away from substance into the realm of protocol and personality conflicts.",Demonweed,e8ubcnn,SandersForPresident
#***Progressive Jesus Strikes Again!***,BERNthisMuthaDown,e8uaara,SandersForPresident
He running again soon?,Cory0527,e8ue1a3,SandersForPresident
I love this man. That is all.,foxontherox,e8ujs03,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8urdbs,SandersForPresident
"I could never be a senator, not that I don't want to, I do. I want to help change the world for better, but I would be the most rabid, foul-mouthed motherfucker ever. C-SPAN would have to put TV-17 up, and the rules...omg...why should a fucking racist cunt get 5 minutes to rant about how tax cuts for the rich equal better opportunity for the low/middle class. I'm from fucking Kansas. We went through that shit. We are still going through this shit. I want to fucking punch them!

So yeah, I couldn't be a senator.
/rant",__voided__,e8uwjnt,SandersForPresident
Is this a response to a particular senator using a bad word? I don't remember any such incident.,AlbertP95,e8uh4cm,SandersForPresident
righteous,neoconbob,e8ujde8,SandersForPresident
"Should have ended it with, ""this is bullshit."" ",non-troll_account,e8ukzyd,SandersForPresident
Bernie gets it.,FUCK_KAVANAUGH,e8v4abi,SandersForPresident
We use civility to destroy poor people. ,Torcha,e8vftc4,SandersForPresident
Damn Bernie too real sometimes,turkey_is_dead,e8wkaw3,SandersForPresident
That sure makes it easier to take! Thank you senator!,strangerdaysahead,e8uq8ll,SandersForPresident
They train young men to drop fire on people. But their commanders won't allow them to write 'fuck' on their airplanes because it is obscene. a. now.,evilknugent,e8uzx6r,SandersForPresident
I'm loving the new feisty Bernie.,Apathetic_Zealot,e8v3llz,SandersForPresident
"As a candidate, I'm getting this *exact* argument from liberals and conservatives. I'm an eco-socialist running against someone who is literally backed by fossil fuel and fracking companies.",,e8vj1eh,SandersForPresident
"Ever since Sarah Silverman got up on that stage at the DNC in 2016 and said “Bernie bros... come on” I cannot bring myself to like, watch, or appreciate anything she does now. Her callous attitude at that moment ruined my perception of her.",groovy_giraffe,e8uy76l,SandersForPresident
"So...what are the consequences if a senator uses a ""bad word"" while in session? Anything meaningful, or just finger-wagging?",utterly_useless_info,e8ujajx,SandersForPresident
damn sick burn Bern,BassSamurai,e8v2rl2,SandersForPresident
It's reality TV now and he is starting to play by their rules.,sirchauce,e8vhm1p,SandersForPresident
"I think this may have come out poorly. He just compared tax breaks for billionaires to bombing busses full of children. I agree that theyre both shit things to do, but one seems a little worse",A_Suffering_Panda,e8v0aja,SandersForPresident
"It's Sarah Silverman's show on Hulu.  Don't think this full interview's been released yet.

EDIT:  Wait, I think I may be wrong on that.  It shows she interviewed Bernie on her 9/18 show.  I haven't seen it, but it could be that?  ",thegeebeebee,e8u6d2p,SandersForPresident
"Sure, but it's far easier to prove that someone name-called than it is to prove they lied.",-thataway-,e8ungf3,SandersForPresident
What is a lie in a post-fact world?,el_smurfo,e8v3ynm,SandersForPresident
More like Progressive Moses leading people out of the desert and slavery.,gideonvwainwright,e8udmie,SandersForPresident
"He hasn’t confirmed one way or the other yet, but I’d be surprised (and sad) if he doesn’t. ",IM_THE_DECOY,e8ugj3b,SandersForPresident
For Senate? He's an incumbent this year. ,IndieCredentials,e8uhill,SandersForPresident
"Above all, gotta be civil!",thegeebeebee,e8urkd6,SandersForPresident
Wasn't it Obama who built those cages? ,Brown_Starfish,e8us4rn,SandersForPresident
i'm in the same boat... but i've gotta do something,Thatythat,e8v1219,SandersForPresident
No it’s a response to Sarah Silverman saying something with a “dirty word” or “bad word” while she was visiting him in the Senate.,gideonvwainwright,e8uvp4e,SandersForPresident
"Agreed.  It's hard to stomach someone who will be fine, financially, whatever happens, telling millions of people struggling to suck it up.

That was horrible.",thegeebeebee,e8uyqh4,SandersForPresident
"She never said ""Bernie Bros...""  Let's not add stuff to make it sound more insulting than it was.  It wasn't insulting so much as it was condescending (""Get over it"").  At least she has tried to make amends for it.  She will never be the same person to me, but at least she is trying to do good.  I would rather have that than having her say ""well they don't like me, so I might as well ignore Sanders... let's get Booker on the show instead."" 

 

 Does that make sense?",nutmeggerking,e8v9lo5,SandersForPresident
you get shot ,GreatAide,e8utq1g,SandersForPresident
It lands if you think about what a tax break for an already obscenely wealthy person means for the average person.,RexUniversum,e8v3uds,SandersForPresident
"I get that it is exposure for Bernie Sanders, but I will never forgive Sarah Silverman for telling Bernie supporters to ""get over it"" at the DNC convention. Did she at least apologize?",jasonskjonsby,e8uxdh4,SandersForPresident
"Yea this episode is out. Hopefully she gets Bernie on again. Her show is great though, good interviews and cool segments where she travels around",will_workfor_tacos,e8ueowr,SandersForPresident
"The easiest meaningless point is still a distraction from every possible meaningful point.  Yet it is a distraction that, by virtue easy access, draws tremendous amounts of human energy into completely unproductive clashes.",Demonweed,e8upw2h,SandersForPresident
"It is possible to speak the truth.  Just check out any of Bernie's rallies or debate performances.  It's not that I'm some slack-jawed sycophant drawn in by slick publicity campaigns or a cult of personality.  I just like hearing someone talk about problems that are actually happening and responses that would actually improve those situations.  If infotainment understood how to get ratings and retain corporate sponsors while being real, it wouldn't be such a rare and unknown thing -- the sound of political honesty in America.",Demonweed,e8v5qen,SandersForPresident
More like just a dude that thinks we should be cool with other dudes that don't look like us.  Strange how common decency is so uncommon.,tomorrowthesun,e8uo30s,SandersForPresident
"But weren't the jews lost in the desert for like 40 years or something ?   Hopefully our fellow idiots, err human beings, don't keep us trapped for that long...",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8upmcl,SandersForPresident
We're currently in our ~~Golden~~ Orange Idle stage.,dolanbp,e8uxzza,SandersForPresident
"It seems like Bernie has spent most of this year in the public sphere, most recently finishing up 9 straight days of traveling all over to campaign for candidates in the midterm elections. Remember when he campaigned with Disneyland workers and Amazon workers and the subsequent wage changes that followed? He has a new book coming out right after the midterms called ""Where We Go From Here."" His mentions in US public media over the last 3 months dwarf even Biden, Warren, and Avenatti by a decent margin. Fivethirtyeight has found him to be the only one to have done the '8 things someone would do if they were planning on running for president' in 2020.

I think you can guess where I'm going with this. And I'm all for it.",lalaohhi,e8v6qho,SandersForPresident
"In 2016 I think he ran because Elizabeth Warren refused to run against Clinton so he had no choice. Since it looks more and more likely that Elizabeth Warren is gearing up for a run he may take a pass unless she somehow abandons many of her progressive ideals. I would still prefer Bernie Sanders, but Elizabeth Warren would also be a great candidate that I could enthusiastically support and she potentially has a better chance of winning overall. Either way, I hope EVERY democrat runs in 2020. A strong primary talking about the issues would be a nice contrast against the racism, xenophobia and wedge issues on the other side of the aisle.",Toribor,e8ujhyh,SandersForPresident
"He's been campaigning for others, but he's running for reelection here in Vermont. He's using his visibility to campaign for people in other states who support a similar agenda. 

You know, the sort of stuff the DNC just forgot about after Obama got elected.  ",WikWikWack,e8vedmo,SandersForPresident
Shhhhh. ,WikWikWack,e8veflf,SandersForPresident
Yeah that did hurt.,nutmeggerking,e8v9meb,SandersForPresident
"She called them Bernie or bust, not Bernie bros, I looked it up (haven’t since that night in 2016) but the message was the same. She’s not the worst person for sure, but I still can’t look at her, even now, 2 years later. ",groovy_giraffe,e8vb9s3,SandersForPresident
"I mean, at the time it kinda made sense. We were facing the very real possibility of President Trump. Good thing we pulled together and dodged that bullet, cant imagine what sort of alternate universe dystopian reality TV we would occupy had we argued so much amongst ourselves that he slipped in the highest office. ",ChronicBurnout3,e8vhqq5,SandersForPresident
Why are you people still mad? She was right. That was not the time to stay mad. It was a time to vote and scrub yourself with a brillo pad. ,revolutionhascome,e8vq2cm,SandersForPresident
"She said that Bernie “or bust” people need to get over it and vote for hillary. No need to apologize for that. I know a few and they definitely do STILL! 

Vote and make a difference. You can’t change the past but the future hasn’t been written!",prncedrk,e8vqlt8,SandersForPresident
Except for her toxic speech at the DNC Convention.,jasonskjonsby,e8uxfbv,SandersForPresident
Common decency is uncommon in positions of power 🙁,Prince_Oberyns_Head,e8uod41,SandersForPresident
How long have wages been stagnant?,-Master-Builder-,e8upwwc,SandersForPresident
"bernie has the name recognition and an army of supporters ready to boot. warren would be starting from scratch on the national stage. the only things that could make her more electable: age (she's still super old though), she's a woman, no socialist baggage (tbh i don't think it's actually an issue). i think they will discuss it in private and do the most effective thing to get a true progressive elected.",Surporat,e8uwd59,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but we know from experience that Bernie can stand up, give live speeches, debate, tweet and fund-raise without doing or saying anything stupid.

I already had low confidence when Warren didn't choose a candidate before the Massachusetts primary, but then after she did a DNA test and revealed it and played back and forth with Trump online... I'm not sure Trump won't make her look a fool.",MiddleClassNoClass,e8voooe,SandersForPresident
"A competitive primary could divide the Democratic base again, though. I'd rather have a progressive candidate overshadow all the useless Corporate Dems like Harris, Biden and Booker who unfortunately are leading in the polls.",happysisyphos,e8uk1wf,SandersForPresident
"Honestly though, ""Bernie or bust"" is just stupid. This whole, ""we shouldn't lower our standards"" bullshit is how we end up with something even worse than centrist Dems, Republicans. Republicans are consolidating and fortifying their power, that's gonna make it harder for Dems, let alone Progressive ones, to take back power. 

&#x200B;

I know you want things to just change overnight, but that's not how it works, especially when people are too lazy to vote. And when people are too lazy to vote, politicians are gonna try and appeal to people who do vote. ",Brrryyycccee,e8vcp6o,SandersForPresident
"Holy Fuck did you miss the point. What Hillary and her supporters did were the reason Trump is in office. Not a few critical Bernie supporters. According to the leaked and hacked DNC e-mails, Hillary Clinton wanted to run against Donald Trump. She got her supporters at CNN including Donna Brazille to cover Donald Trump non-stop, to make him the Republican nominee. She went out of her way to get Donald Trump to run and to be the Republican front runner.

Meanwhile, I am a regular everyday person, who volunteer for Bernie and tried to fix a corrupt and broken Caucus. This showed me how little power I really have. I had some impact on the caucus but zero impact on the general.

So who is more to blame for Trump being in office? Me a single voter or Hillary Clinton, leader of one of the most powerful political dynasties in decades? 

Stop blaming voters and realize Hillary Clinton did this to herself and had more impact on the 2016 election, than any single voter.
And if she runs again, which she is talking about, she maybe responsible for giving Trump a 2nd term. She is the most arrogant politician in America after Donald Trump.",jasonskjonsby,e8viim0,SandersForPresident
"Why the f are you even in this thread, if you are going to be a troll?",jasonskjonsby,e8vr1z6,SandersForPresident
"You mean like how the GOP is putting kids in cages, toxic? That kind of ***toxic***?

Or toxic meaning a stupidly higher standard Democrats have to live up to so they dont hurt your feelings - which is thousands of times higher than anything the GOPs face?",RagingCain,e8v28zv,SandersForPresident
"Because positions of power are sought out by those whose aim is to be powerful, not to help people.",-Master-Builder-,e8upv6k,SandersForPresident
Just over 40 years....you’re onto something here....,Caffeine_Advocate,e8uxj1a,SandersForPresident
I don't want Warren. I want Bernie. ,stoopslife,e8v1i2j,SandersForPresident
"Competitive primaries have always been the norm, though. I feel like the division from last time stemmed from the disgraceful manner in which they were conducted.

If we have a lot of prime time debates and a lack of complete and utter bs, I think people will be less divided once the pool is whittled down.",unholycowgod,e8unchn,SandersForPresident
"If Biden, Booker or Harris ends up on the ticket, then Democrats deserve whatever comes their way.  You can't keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again (Gore, Kerry, Clinton) and then blame it on the Democrats that vocally opposed them.  At a certain point, the buck stops with you.  If people vote for Biden, then I would vote for him but I would likely do zero volunteering for his campaign nor would I be spreading news about him.  You need someone that excites and rallies the loudest part of the base in order to get the rest to follow.  Biden has a terrible voting record, including voting for the Iraq War and the Patriot Act.  That is going to turn off a good chunk of the progressive wing who will just see this as another establishment warhawk.    


I am still holding out hope, but with each new poll, I lose faith in us.  We have an actual opportunity to get a modern day FDR in and instead we shoot for another asshat like Truman.",nutmeggerking,e8v9d4o,SandersForPresident
"People who got screwed with dirty tactics tend to not want to help you later. Especially when the people who used those tactics continue to deny the obvious things they did and place the blame everywhere else but on themselves. 

It's going to be ugly when they pull that shit again. But I have zero doubt they will.",WikWikWack,e8vep4a,SandersForPresident
No worries if she runs a 2nd time she won’t make it through the primaries. Democrats are done with her and she’s tainted by decades of smear tactics.,prncedrk,e8vq26k,SandersForPresident
We ALL know. That's not the point. The point was vote against the fascists. ,revolutionhascome,e8vq3zr,SandersForPresident
"Stop blaming voters? But the voters who bothered to show up chose to vote for Capt Cheeto instead of someone who had a chance of actually running our country. Maybe not the way you or I wanted, but at least not used the pulpit as a stand for hatred and bigotry. We can put some blame on the electoral college, but every time a republican wins Democrats complain about it, and no one talks about changing it for more than a month after the election.

If you want change, you have the power to make it happen. Tell your congressman and your reps, don't stop telling them until they do something. If we all took a stand for something we believed in instead of bitching about things we can't change on the internet, the country might actually become the Great country it has always pretended to be.",galamdring,e8vtrvf,SandersForPresident
"I voted for Bernie in the primary and have supported him for decades. That’s why I am here. I love Bernie and his wisdom, the wisdom that many of you seem to be missing.

When Bernie votes for President whose name do you think he checked?

Get over yourselves",prncedrk,e8wy51s,SandersForPresident
"Donald Trump is toxic. But if we lower the bar due to him we will never have standards since Trump has none. Sarah Silverman's speech at the DNC convention was inappropriate  and she should have apologized to Bernie Sanders. She even might have behind the scenes, but Bernie is too classy to call her out.",jasonskjonsby,e8v7l7p,SandersForPresident
You have to hold yourself to a higher standard to expect to raise others to it.,High_Flyers17,e8vlzl1,SandersForPresident
"You know, in American history, realignment elections have happened about every 40 years, give or take, and the last one was in 1980 when Reagan ushered in the modern era of corporate conservatism... so while nothing is guaranteed, I think we're due for another one.",teuast,e8vdjkx,SandersForPresident
i think bernie knows that a lot of people feel this way.,Surporat,e8v1psm,SandersForPresident
"Except this ""we shouldn't lower our standards"" thinking is then used to bash Dems who are running in deep red areas. I see people bashing Randy Bryce and Beto O'rourke in other Sanders subs because they are ""true"" progressives. It's bullshit.  


Bernie wouldn't have won the nomination, regardless. Between the media and his low name recognition at the time and the fact that a lot of his supporters were too lazy to vote, he really didn't have a chance. But he got the DNC to adopt most of his platform. Instead of recognizing that and voting for Hillary because she was clearly the better candidate, people took a ""principled stand"" to not vote for her and now we have Trump. Now we have someone who cant be controlled as opposed to a reasonable candidate.

&#x200B;

The move to the left isn't going to be instant. First Dems need to win and people need to show up to vote, then we need to push a progressive agenda and show people that it works and then the move left will really start to pick up steam.",Brrryyycccee,e8vg8a2,SandersForPresident
">if she runs a 3rd time.  

FTFY....She lost to Barack Obama 2008. ",digiorno,e8w3iso,SandersForPresident
"No, many people don't. That is the problem and will be the biggest problem going into 2019 and 2020. The Hillary camp still believe that they did nothing wrong in the Democratic primary or they were justified in doing the rigging since Trump is such an evil man. Just because Trump is terrible as President doesn't mean Hillary Clinton is a perfect saint or was going to be a great President.

If the Democratic Party is going to Unify to defeat Trump in 2020, then Hillary Clinton and her supporters need to admit they rigged the primary against Bernie Sanders and apologize.

In September and October of 2016 I was told by multiple people on the Hillary Campaign that they didn't need me because Hillary was going to win by millions and that she could completely ignore the Bernie Sanders supporters. Both Podesta and Schumer said for every Liberal we turn away we will pick up 2 Republicans in swing states. Guess what, Hillary lost those swing states and Donald Trump won.

The Democrats need the liberal wing of the Democratic party to win. Anyone who doesn't think that sits home on Jan 20th. Like Hillary Clinton, John Kerry and Al Gore.",jasonskjonsby,e8vqyrw,SandersForPresident
"I could never vote for Hillary, Biden or any other establishment DNC candidate. Not after they showed me just how undemocratic they could be to ensure a political dynasty instead of yield to a populist and progressive leader. They cheated, plain and simple. 

They focus on how bad Trump is but their subversion of democracy is equally bad in my mind. Fascism is horrible but so is sedition by voting 3rd Party I can express my distaste for these bad actors.",digiorno,e8w3us0,SandersForPresident
"No that isn't the reality of the damn situation and you should know it. Clinton received 28.43% (65,845,063) of all votes compared to Trump’s 27.20% (62,980,160) and Did Not Vote’s 44.37% (102,731,399). The Trump voters are terrible but the 44.37% didn't vote since neither candidate inspired them or turned them off with their horrible personality. Trump had the lowest approval rate of any candidate in modern history, followed by Hillary Clinton in 2nd. No candidate in the last 50 years have been as disliked as these two horrible candidates. 

The ""Buck Stops Here"" was the motto of President Truman because at the end of the day the blame is with the person with the most power.

Don't blame voters for Hillary's Mistake. She helped pick Trump. She fucked up and she needs to own up to that mistake. ",jasonskjonsby,e8vufu5,SandersForPresident
I'm kind of over her with her comments about Louie's solo circle jerks watching.,hiways,e8vf9vs,SandersForPresident
Trump ain't going to raise his standards to meet ours. We need to raise our standards to be the much better alternative. ,jasonskjonsby,e8vnt7m,SandersForPresident
"Dems aren't going to win unless they move left.  Do you think republicans said ""we aren't going to go right instantly."" No, they fucking ran with it and that's why we keep moving right.  Because you are happy with two steps to the left while the Republicans end up jumping five steps to the right.

Next primary, don't be so stupid and vote for the candidate that was in favor of the Iraq War and Patriot Act.  Don't vote for the candidate that invokes 9/11 when called out about her support of Wall Street during a debate.  Don't vote for the candidate that says he/she is ""proud"" to have Kissinger as a close advisor.
 

Pick the candidate that represents the values of the left.  And if not, then don't be upset that other people aren't willing to dilute their own morality.  Pick a better candidate next time.  This election is as much on the people that voted for Clinton in the primary as it is on people that sat out the general election.  But that's something that requires you to reflect on yourself rather than deflect to others.  

(By ""you"" I am not talking about you specifically but about people more generally)",nutmeggerking,e8wyway,SandersForPresident
Everybody here knows. ,revolutionhascome,e8vrgn6,SandersForPresident
"I'm not blaming voters for Hillary's mistake. I'm blaming them for their choices. Yeah, Hillary sucks. But she is clearly the less evil of the 2 options we had. The choice to not vote is the reason he got elected. 

Take some personal responsibility, because blaming Hillary for where we are is exactly what got Trump elected.",galamdring,e8whqut,SandersForPresident
This person gets it,prncedrk,e8wy16d,SandersForPresident
"If you aren't blaming voters and you aren't blaming Hillary, who's fault was it for 2016? ",jasonskjonsby,e8x9zd6,SandersForPresident
"Bail out student loans and create the largest economic boom in history when the majority generation finally has the power to buy cars, get homes, and marry. I mean hell, we just handed over 3.8 trillion to the wealthiest people in the country, if you think we can’t make 1.5 trillion happen to establish the largest and most successful stimulus package ever done, then I’m guessing you’ve already got your millions.",stermr,e8w2udy,SandersForPresident
If we can spend several trillion fucking up the middle east..,FinntheFlobot,e8wd8ob,SandersForPresident
The bailout was higher interest loans than we give college students. We didn't lose money by bailing out.,austin101123,e8vnwbx,SandersForPresident
"[$7.77 trillion was committed to rescuing the financial system](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2011-11-28/secret-fed-loans-undisclosed-to-congress-gave-banks-13-billion-in-income). That could have been used to produce much more worthwhile assets, and is a superb reason to [restructure large financial institutions.](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-sherman-introduce-legislation-to-break-up-too-big-to-fail-financial-institutions)  

College For All would be of tremendous benefit and is yugely worthwhile.",Chartis,e8voqjr,SandersForPresident
"Since I'm seeing a lot of the same bullshit cliched arguments against a living wage in this thread already ... [Economists reverse claims that $15 Seattle minimum wage hurt workers, admit it was largely beneficial](https://boingboing.net/2018/10/28/fight-for-15.html)",RetroPink,e8vgeus,SandersForPresident
"When someone throws this argument at you, it's difficult to counter, because you're arguing on two entirely different planes. The goal is to convince them that the economy needs to increase wages as a wave starting at the bottom and rippling all the way to the top, rather than one single step on a staircase putting the bottom on the same level as the second-to-bottom.",robotzor,e8v07t3,SandersForPresident
"I tell people this all the time, if the fast food workers get a huge raise, then everybody above them get raises too. Everybody in this county is vastly underpaid for how hard we work.",Soundsmith88,e8v5umk,SandersForPresident
"I was an EMT on an ambulance in 2003. They paid me minimum wage, even with the training and danger I encountered. Most EMT's and even Paramedics that work for private companies would welcome an increase in the minimum wage.",jasonskjonsby,e8vuplk,SandersForPresident
"Why do people specifically support a $15 minimum wage? As far as I know the number was just made up, not using any sort of system to determine the optimal number. Of course the current number is too low, but maybe $14 or $16 is better than $15? The $15 was contested for the 2016 election, so just going by inflation shouldn't the campaign be for $16 or $17 by 2020 election?",austin101123,e8vis4t,SandersForPresident
"Time is *life*. If you're job were to do nothing more than to sit in a chair all day in an empty room, you should be paid for your *time*.

Time=Money. Rich people know this right up until it comes to paying their employees.

So fuck yes. $15 to sit in a chair for 8 hours a day. So when I leave, I can afford shelter, food, clothes, utilities and still have enough to put aside a piece for retirement or emergencies.

You want me to be on my feet all day? Flipping burgers? Hiding my fatigue and frustration at rude customers? That's *more*.

Pay $15 for just the time. Pay more if you job is a pain in the ass that no one wants to do, requires *any* level of education, has unpredictable hours, is stressful, etc.

Slave wages have got to end. Respect for workers needs to start.",LudovicoSpecs,e8walc4,SandersForPresident
"My opinion of the matter is that really you are just gonna shift the money to different amounts. I believe the term is artificial inflation. Since the grocery workers are making $15 an hour, now bread, milk, meat is gonna prolly double in price because that money has to come from. So in essence you just end up with bigger dollar amounts. In my opinion, a job making minimum wage is just a temporary occupation while you attend school, gain experience, or find something more in line with your interest.
The other thing to keep in mind is that it could go the other way. Take for instance McDonald's. They will probably more likely automate the process so in essence your gonna be cutting 10 jobs into 3. 
I believe raising minimum wage to $15 is like putting the same amount of liquid in a different shaped cup. It's the same amount just packaged differently.",grimes407,e8v9ntm,SandersForPresident
"So, paramedics will be paid more AND so will the starbucks barista at the hospital. The hospital will pay these people with money from.... ??? That will mean higher medical bills, and generally everything will increase in price ($2 burgers will be $4 now because the teenager making your burger has to be paid $15).   


$15 will quickly become what $7 is now and nothing will be changed except people initially losing their jobs because businesses can't turn a profit with the amount they're forced to pay (initially at least). 

&#x200B;

Congratulations, best case scenario you're now an minimum-wage-raising inflation-creating ouroboro, medium case scenario you spiral into Venezuela, or worst case you massacre millions to deal with the unrest.

[https://thefederalistpapers.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/imageedit\_4445\_4953881714.jpg](https://thefederalistpapers.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/imageedit_4445_4953881714.jpg) ",Astraeus9195,e8vr5uz,SandersForPresident
Whaaaaat?! You mean consumers having more money to spend in the economy is better than letting all the money pile in one bank account? Who would have thought.,-Master-Builder-,e8vnzwu,SandersForPresident
"Thank you for this. I've always struggled to come up with a counter other than ""everyone should be making more"".  This is a better retort.",SavageGardner,e8vtfad,SandersForPresident
"I work in a hospital in the suburbs (non clinical) and I received a wage increase because when Chicago’s minimum increased that means I could work at McDonalds not too far over and make a similar wage, so they increased ours across the board to compete.
Can confirm 100% this is what happens.",Chimetalhead92,e8vuffv,SandersForPresident
bUt ThEn ThE PriCeS wIlL gO uP,Bonnaride2014,e8vfgpo,SandersForPresident
A year of full-time $15 an hour labor is the federal poverty line for a family of 4 with a single full-time income.,BlundersuitMacGoose,e8vnh25,SandersForPresident
"Because 15 is a reasonable compromise between what we have now, and what it should be (25ish). Ideally you put the federal minimum wage at 15 and peg it to inflation and the states have a much higher cost of living have a higher minimum wage to account for the regional difference.",WarlordZsinj,e8vn8pr,SandersForPresident
">By looking at changes in restaurant food pricing during the period of 1978–2015, MacDonald and Nilsson find that prices rose by just 0.36 percent for every 10 percent increase in the minimum wage, which is only about half the size reported in previous studies. They also observe that small minimum wage increases do not lead to higher prices and may actually reduce prices. Furthermore, it is also possible that small minimum wage increases could lead to increased employment in low-wage labor markets.

https://www.upjohn.org/research-highlights/does-increasing-minimum-wage-lead-higher-prices",horstenporst,e8viiwn,SandersForPresident
"Thats not how that works at all. Labor is the smallest cost in any tangible good. Prices will rise very slightly, but the overall spending power will completely offset that.

Furthermore, companies are trying to automate as fast as they can. The tech isn't there yet.",WarlordZsinj,e8vndd0,SandersForPresident
"This is false. Cost of most goods already vastly exceeds production costs, precisely because they can get away with it. Most people just don't know.

That's just a myth they trot out, and look at Seattle. None of that happened.",SolarClipz,e8vqp6c,SandersForPresident
"Automation is coming to fast food either way, but if increasing the minimum wage can help speed it up then we should fight for $15 much more aggressively.  ",revolution2018,e8vf8a0,SandersForPresident
"Amen this is what the truth is. And of course by time we get to 2020 get lets says Sanders in offfice. And by time he gets to this part of his presidency.  Thats to says healthcare will be number one priority.  Then your looking at 2022 or even 23 before it can go into effect.  Well folks 15 won't be enough. 
What people fail to realize is the rich will not ever allow themselves to make less money instead they will just raise the cost of EVERYTHING to the point that they still make the same Or more with having to pay you 15 an hour.  
    So this is a worthless fight that we can't ever win. We need to change the way we think about the economy and work on a worthwhile UBI and force the rich to pay for it.",Fredselfish,e8voaca,SandersForPresident
"The $2 cost of a burger is not made up 100% of labor cost. It is maybe 30%. In that case a $2 burger will go up $2*1.3 = $2.60. 

So now let’s compare our workers buying power:

7.50/hr min wage means the worker has to put in 2/7.50= .25 of an hour (15 min) to afford the burger she made. 

15/hr min wage means the worker has to put in 2.6/15= .17 of an hour (10 min) to afford the burger she made. 

Now she has more money to buy other things. What makes a consumer economy strong? When consumers are able to consume. A higher minimum wage = more buying power = more consumption. ",salsawood,e8vtyy8,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8wujw3,SandersForPresident
We're a long way from stagflation. ,James_GAF,e8vt8qj,SandersForPresident
"Even assuming that's true and applies to every price, people will have more money to afford higher prices. I don't understand what they think is the issue?",BopTheDrass,e8voi0f,SandersForPresident
I will have to do more research on the matter and get back to you. I read the article in the link and thought it was interesting. ,grimes407,e8vltn4,SandersForPresident
"I remember a study somewhere where Mcdonalds could double their worker pay all the way to the top, and only raise the cost of a big mac by 25 cents.",firemage22,e8vuow0,SandersForPresident
"Hi `tsmac`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9tb77l/-/e8wujw3/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e8wxc97,SandersForPresident
"I guess they’re saying if price increases match wage increases then the legislation would be a waste because nothing would be gained and prices would just be inflated. It’s a flawed logic and I support a higher minimum wage but I hear arguments like this often in my small conservative town.

Edit: happy cake day :)",ScentedShark,e8vshbj,SandersForPresident
And people have a CHOICE on what They spend money on. The free market will keep things competitive and prices under control,Soundsmith88,e8wtxb2,SandersForPresident
"Well for people depending on government assistance, food stamps, social security for the elderly, and disabled all these amounts will remain the same while people working will have more spending power, and then the old lady on social security won't have a living wage, probably not forever but raising the minimum wage comes with problems albeit probably temporary problems. ",kzwj,e9cd50n,SandersForPresident
"Someone behaves nicely and level-headedly after possibly being proven wrong and now everyone is chill and we're all friends, wtf is happening I've never seen this on here",test822,e8vsiuc,SandersForPresident
"I've seen a study that said if they increased the wage to 15, big mac prices would only increase by around 10 cents.",WarlordZsinj,e8vurnn,SandersForPresident
"Huh ? Many Latinos are descendants of European immigrants just as much as Americans are. The biggest genocides on Native peoples were perpetrated by the Spanish Empire. How can he claim (all) Latinos are Native Americans ? Or is it just rhetoric. He seems to be serious by pointing to the ""common ancestry"". ",Bardali,e8x8ntc,SandersForPresident
"Most Latinos are of Native American descent. It makes up the majority of our ancestry. Having Spanish ancestry doesn’t change that.  Even with all of the deaths due to disease, the Spanish never outnumbered the native population. For example, over 30% of Mexico’s population is full blooded Native. The rest are mixed between Spanish and Native.  You have no place judging because you are obviously ignorant about our history and genealogy. ",Gusthe3rd,e8yj10t,SandersForPresident
Do you have a source for that ? I’ve never seen that claim before. ,Bardali,e8z9bmy,SandersForPresident
What is the Democratic agenda? Is it still leading with our values?,robotzor,e8vclky,SandersForPresident
Step 4 is actually profit from the destruction of the planet,ecto1a2003,e8vdq42,SandersForPresident
"Ha! Even the slogan was so forgettable, it could have been such a [rallying banner](https://i.imgur.com/ZtIwPHt.png). In truth the practical agenda will continue to depend on how much the DNC is pressed and reformed. Our efforts are already paying off:  

[@GunnelsWarren:](https://twitter.com/GunnelsWarren/status/1052750263583469569)    

* What do the Democrats stand for?   

 “Let’s all join the Fight for 15. And I’ll tell you one thing for sure: if we win the election, in the first 100 hours, we will pass a $15 minimum wage."" [@NancyPelosi](https://twitter.com/NancyPelosi)

 Let's win this thing & fight to make certain this pledge comes true.

[DNC Platform: Raising Workers’ Wages](https://democrats.org/about/party-platform/#raising-wages)  

Other highlights include expanding Social Security, rebuilding crumbling infrastructure, getting 50% of electricity from clean energy within a decade, [college for all](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=808), public option health care & expanding Medicare (keep pushing for Medicare For All).  

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)


>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  ",Chartis,e8vejxn,SandersForPresident
"No actually, in your own state the Democrats are leading with Healthcare",DepletedMitochondria,e8vskvo,SandersForPresident
[Explanation by creator](https://np.reddit.com/r/moderatepolitics/comments/9td57k/analysis_of_the_accuracy_and_bias_of_news_sources/e8vcsv7/),TobiasFunkePhd,e8wdply,SandersForPresident
Oh cool.,WhiskeyInferno,e8wuzzb,SandersForPresident
>Contact your [local county board of elections](https://www.elections.ny.gov/countyboards.html) if you have not received your ballot  ,Chartis,e8x5ldt,SandersForPresident
"Article: [Closing GOP message: abolish the federal minimum wage.](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/11/01/days-midterms-trumps-top-economic-adviser-larry-kudlow-calls-federal-minimum-wage)

>Donald Trump tells us that he stands with American workers. That's a lie.  As president, he and Republicans gave huge tax breaks to billionaires. Now, they want to abolish the minimum wage. That's wrong. If you work 40 hours a week, you should not live in poverty. The simplest way to give a raise to 41 million Americans is to increase the federal minimum wage to a living wage – $15 an hour, and that's exactly what my legislation will do.

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/trumps-top-economic-adviser-says-federal-minimum-wage-is-a-terrible-idea)

Senator Sanders has introduced [legislation to raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour.](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1242) The bill is supported by 30 Democrats in the Senate and 154 members of the House.",Chartis,e8v7v3b,SandersForPresident
Source: https://twitter.com/billmckibben,Chartis,e8vrkh9,SandersForPresident
"IMHO Wasserman Shultz is worse than many other GOP candidates out there as she is a wolf in sheep's clothing. Rigging primaries, siding with big pharma, private prisons, etc. I personally didn't think Canova had a chance in this race but after seeing this article I donated $27 which is my first donation since Bernie ran back in 2016.

&#x200B;

Just like Ocasio-Cortez in NY we need to show Democrats that we will not tolerate these policy positions. Send a message and flip CD-23-FL to a 'BernieCrat'

&#x200B;

Tim Canova's Platform:  [https://timcanova.com/on-the-issues/](https://timcanova.com/on-the-issues/)

&#x200B;

Donate: [https://actionnetwork.org/fundraising/contribute-now-to-tim-canova-for-congress/?source=website](https://actionnetwork.org/fundraising/contribute-now-to-tim-canova-for-congress/?source=website)

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",GangstaRIB,e8ufxyz,SandersForPresident
"As a Leftist Floridian, I strongly hope Canova wins",ghettosamson,e8uisz6,SandersForPresident
"S4P, get on the phones and knock on some doors! Not only do we have a legit opportunity to take out one of the people most responsible for stealing the 2016 election from us but we have a chance to replace her with a *real* Berniecrat. What are you going to do to help make that happen?",Grizzly_Madams,e8ugjik,SandersForPresident
"This seems credible because that number for the republican is abysmal. That ""outlet"" is terrible though",BopTheDrass,e8uu6ue,SandersForPresident
"Omg, I can't donate but how can I help?",sasiralla,e8uhoyw,SandersForPresident
It would be interesting to see a runoff just between the two of them. Or a Canova win.,Nightender,e8v01yb,SandersForPresident
"This district is 2 to 1 democratic, so there is virtually no risk of electing a republican due to vote splitting. Vote Canova!",Surporat,e8ux583,SandersForPresident
"Weird that Canova managed to spend over $445K this cycle (over $170K of that just on office rent/2 staffers' salaries), but is now relying on a fringe Republican blogger's ""report"" of a mysterious GOP poll that he claims someone told him about... 

Yeah, sounds legit to me!",SwallowAtTheHollow,e8wwyag,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8vbgfg,SandersForPresident
Same here. Seeing this article convinced me to take action. I ~~don't~~ donated (stupid cell phone) last night and am making calls for Tim this weekend. Let's get rid of this POS and replace her with a progressive Ally.,Grizzly_Madams,e8ugabm,SandersForPresident
"DWS is essentially a Republican in terms of level of corruption.

In some regard it may be better for her to lose her seat to a GOP challenger who would then lose his seat to a Progressive after 1 term.

That's not going to happen for 2 reasons:

1. That district will vote blue regardless

2. Tim Canova is taking that seat right now.",MelGibsonDerp,e8v7wmp,SandersForPresident
Just have to say I can't believe Tim is almost 60. Holy cow.,BopTheDrass,e8w58qw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8vc42s,SandersForPresident
You can make calls. That would be a huge help!,Grizzly_Madams,e8vk1dw,SandersForPresident
"I believe it's somewhere around 75/25 Dem&independant to GOP ratio.

We see in the last midterm in 2014 the vote was 63/37 DWS/jkaufman. Roughly 15% of what I assume to be the independent vote has been going to the GOP. I find this to be alarming for DWS.

[https://www.opensecrets.org/races/summary?cycle=2014&id=FL23&spec=N](https://www.opensecrets.org/races/summary?cycle=2014&id=FL23&spec=N)

&#x200B;

According to the 'private poll' it appears even the GOP is defecting to Canova as according to the artcle Kaufman was pulling in less than 20%

&#x200B;

This is YUGE. I thought Canova running as an 'I' was a big mistake and I had all but written him off, but this guy really has a chance.

&#x200B;

Other than coughing up some money to Gillum (I think billy boy nelson has enough big donors) This is the seat in FL that needs to be won. When dems take the house we need some real progressive influence to keep the DinoDems out of power.",GangstaRIB,e8uy7n0,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8vfnn5,SandersForPresident
"> Bernie continues to be ahead of the curve on policy.

**ftfy**",BERNthisMuthaDown,e8v7eap,SandersForPresident
"* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com/)  
* [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com/)

Also welcome to shoot the breeze are those who helped candidates Bernie rallied for or are endorsed in the lists on the sidebar that:  

* donated today 
* canvased today
* [voted](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/) today 
* are planning to vote and want some council on stuff like [ballot initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)   
* Contacted out-of-state personal connections

Contrarian or inflammatory stuff isn't welcome. Keep it light and casual please. Comments may be removed without notice.

Open with a mention of your cred but graphics, off-topic discussion, and even talking about polls are encouraged in addition to activism talk.  ",Chartis,e8vny4q,SandersForPresident
"Saturday in DC: https://ourrev.cp.bsd.net/page/signup/phone-bank-in-dc-for-progressives-  
Sunday in DC: https://ourrev.cp.bsd.net/page/signup/phone-bank-in-dc-for-progressives-2  

everyday right here",Chartis,e8x5qrp,SandersForPresident
Ty to those doing the work.  I need your help :)  ty!,fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8vx7w7,SandersForPresident
"Bringing out votes is even more powerful than voting. Be who is needed.

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Ballot Initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)  

[This is what victory looks like.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqtdCCOXQAYAEkd.jpg)  ",Chartis,e8sv89a,SandersForPresident
Good. I love that Trump is talking about Bernie. Keep talking. All press is good press. ,DanknugzBlazeit420,e8swof5,SandersForPresident
"Sarah Sanders could almost be forgiven for this one, though, as it was CNN, MSNBC, and NYT that were spreading [fake news to paint Bernie Sanders supporters as violent during the Nevada Democratic Convention](https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/did-sanders-supporters-throw-chairs-at-nevada-democratic-convention/).",surrix,e8td61s,SandersForPresident
"
>Our founders enshrined the press as the one profession specifically protected in the Bill of Rights. ""A well informed citizenry is necessary for Democracy to function correctly.""  

-Bernie Sanders, [June 22^nd '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCWRB9tSRIo)  

>1^st Amendment rights, that's what media is about.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/2brJG8pbvg4?t=267)    



---

>Several years ago [a racist walked into a church in South Carolina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charleston_church_shooting) and shot people down in cold blood. [Saturday], a racist walked into a synagogue in Pittsburgh. If this country stands for anything, it's gotta stand for the right of people -whether they are Christian, Jewish, Muslim whatever they may be- to practice their religion, to live their lives, without bigotry without fear and certainly within their houses of worship. 

>* We've got to stand up to the gun lobby and we need common sense gun safety legislation. Guns should not be in the hands of people who should not have them. 


>* We've got to end that hatred, that bigotry that is sweeping this country.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EQnS8NiFeR4)




>In too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.    

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1984322821622712)

---  

>The American people are saying, 'Enough is enough'...  

>* 97% of the American people support universal background checks...  
>* 83% of the American people indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases...  
>* 67% of the people polled by [Quinnipiac]( https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=2521) support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons...  
>* A [CNN poll]( https://ssrs.com/seven-in-10-favor-tighter-gun-laws/)... 70% of people want stricter gun laws...  
>* 87% support laws to prevent convicted felons and the mentally ill from owning guns...   
>* 71% support banning anyone under 21 from buying a gun...  
>* 63% support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines...  
>* 57% support an assault weapons ban...  
>* 56% say that stricter guns laws would reduce gun related deaths...  

>The American people are demanding that we have the courage to [stand up to the NRA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY) and finally take some action that will move us in the right direction...   

>* Universal background checks...  
>* Ending the so called 'Gunshow Loophole'...  
>* Addressing the so called 'Strawmen' purchases...  
>* Ban assault weapons...  
>* Any American that is suffering today from a mental health crisis should be able to get the mental health care they need now, not two months from now...   
>* If somebody is a stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is under a restraining order... that person should not be owning a gun...  

>In a bi-partisan way we can come together, do what the American people want us to do: Pass common sense gun safety legislation that is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLG2Xq6B-f4)  
",Chartis,e8st1xz,SandersForPresident
"The media did lie a lot and made it appear that Bernie was inciting violence though. We all remember that, right?",pilgrimboy,e8sy8sq,SandersForPresident
"Please talk about Bernie all the time, maybe encourage people to go read about what he believes. ",thesearch,e8szpg2,SandersForPresident
Good ol projection party at its finest. Whatever they accuse you of doing they are doing that multiplied by a factor of ten. ,Thor_2099,e8tuntj,SandersForPresident
"Y'all remember when Bernie supporters were accused of being violent thugs because one guy picked up a chair, and immediately put it back down?

I can't help but think of that. It came to mind the other day when I saw Hillary being quoted with something to the effect that we should dispense with civility. It was pretty ironic coming from the primary beneficiary of Chairgate...",ohgodwhatthe,e8u0v30,SandersForPresident
To the GOP 'mandatory health care for all' is inciting violence.,Jose_xixpac,e8t243h,SandersForPresident
Every day? ,RagingRag,e8u70dc,SandersForPresident
"If someone from the Press is reading this, please call her out on this shit.",Boomshank,e8ubw0d,SandersForPresident
Why are we even entertaining them? They just spew lies. ,commonsense2010,e8uekas,SandersForPresident
But what about Colonel Sanders?,arduinonut,e8u2z1h,SandersForPresident
Donald Trump belongs in federal fuckhimintheass prison,,e8u7xhx,SandersForPresident
I hate seeing the Sanders family fight like this.,N00neUkn0w,e8u8d0n,SandersForPresident
When has trump ever invited violence not as a joke?,Supringsinglyawesome,e8tnesm,SandersForPresident
I'm not a big fan of Trump but claiming that he is inciting violence in his speeches every single day is fallacious and discredits our cause. We need to be able to have real conversations about things.,XanderTheMander,e8swws0,SandersForPresident
Every single day huh? Got any sources on that or are you just making shit up as you go along now? ,pedantic--asshole,e8t36l9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8taadz,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8u1jsl,SandersForPresident
"Remember that time Trump agreed to a debate with Bernie and then realized he'd get his ass handed to him and backed out like the cowardly, lying bully that he is?  Pepperidge Farm remembers",untildeath,e8tgzed,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8t8xps,SandersForPresident
That Trump is talking about Bernie is about as solid an indication as we have had that he is being taken seriously as the front runner opponent for 2020 and that Trump is wary of the threat Bernie poses.,harcile,e8uacui,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8tc7iy,SandersForPresident
"This is the fucking kicker:

>over a state convention that they think was emblematic of a rigged political system

HMMMMMMM, WHY WOULD THEY POSSIBLY THINK THAT?",nickvansexhole,e8tinjj,SandersForPresident
"It sounds like Bernie Sanders would oppose the strategy of deplatforming, preferring to have an informed public make educated decisions within the marketplace of ideas.",scroopiedoopie2,e8tn81q,SandersForPresident
"I am a Bernie fan, voted for him in the primaries but he needs to go do a bit of research with regards to his gun control measure. Strawman purchases are already illegal, ""gunshow loophole"" is private sales next to impossible to regulate), domestic violence already disqualifies you from gun purchases, and ""assault weapons"" is a made up term. Assault rifle has been in use in the military jargon for a while, to qualify it must have a full-auto option (which for the most part are already illegal for citizens to own).",enameless,e8tun5k,SandersForPresident
"I got into helping Bernie so I could get something good to watch on tv. Seriously. The power of the media to steer Humanity is unparalleled. To have Bernie be able to appoint federal regulators who are fair in their enforcement of conglomerates and communications would be yuge.  

[Life](https://i.imgur.com/BzzjKoP.png) is [undergoing](https://i.imgur.com/ACBcaDB.png) an [extinction level event](https://i.imgur.com/NxXHMXM.png) here on [Earth](https://i.imgur.com/h4Jy2bU.png) while likely [multiplying on Mars](https://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/research/news/eu_tef/#.U_qEjfmwJcQ). We can do great things, next we must:  

######Be The Press & Press The Press

>When people talk about how well we did with young people, clearly one of the reasons for that was our success with social media....

>Media is about what is not covered. The more important the issue is to large numbers of working people, the less interesting it is to corporate media. Issues being pushed by the top 1% get a lot of attention. My candidacy, alone, accounted for the majority of attention that network Sunday news shows paid to poverty, one of the great crises facing the nation. National television coverage ignores the reality of important parts of American life. Corporations have an agenda that serves their bottom line. In fact, that’s the reason for their existence. The largest media corporations are themselves owned by even larger conglomerates that have their own particular set of economic interests. 

>The extraordinary power of the multinational corporations provides billions of dollars a year in advertising revenue to the corporate owners of the media. These powerful corporations have an agenda. Six corporations control 90% of what we see, hear, and read. This is outrageous, and a real threat to our democracy. Those six corporations are Comcast, News Corp, Disney, Viacom, Time Warner, and CBS. 

>I received 46% of the pledged delegates, won 22 states, and lost some states by a few votes. In other words, we had a significant amount of support from ordinary people. On the other hand, I did not win 46% of the endorsements from the print establishment and the leading newspapers in the country. In fact, I won only one. I was very proud to have received the endorsement of The Seattle Times.  

>Demand that the media focuses on the real issues facing our nation and the world, not just political gossip. And if corporate media won’t change, and they won’t, start new media. The Internet offers revolutionary prospects.

>The future is in your hands. Let’s get to work.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Our Revolution - A Future to Believe In](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250160454)

---  

######Press For Medicare For All

>* Stop irrationally demonizing taxation and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[UN Human Rights Report](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)   

---  

######Ensure Government Structured On Social Wellbeing   

>Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net 
anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030

-[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)  

>To accomplish the key transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

>**Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior...**    

>As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a [job guarantee](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf) would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

-[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

>In the coming months I'll be working with fellow Senators to bring forth the most sweeping climate change legislation ever introduced in the Senate. We are in a crisis...  

-Bernie, [Oct 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/SkTTHop3DiI?t=176) 

---   

######Develop A Worldwide Progressive Movement


>Our job is to fight for a future in which public policy and new technology and innovation work to benefit all of the people, not just the few...

>Our job is to fight back against the coordinated effort, strongly supported by the president and funded by oligarchs like the Koch brothers, to make it harder to for American citizens — often people of color, poor people, and young people — to vote. Not only do oligarchs want to buy elections, but voter suppression is a key element of their plan to maintain power...  

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other. We know that those forces work together across borders. We must do the same.   

-Bernie, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)  

---  

######Relentlessly Rally The Vote

[@BernieSanders](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055983885476073472)

* We have the most important midterm election in the modern history of the United States coming up. We must do everything we can between now and then to elect strong progressive leaders from coast to coast.  

[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055259708053803008)

* Young people are the most progressive generation in American history. If you vote, you will transform this country.  
  
[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055507453310320641)  

* Let's do everything we can to make sure we have historic voter turnout this election.
 
* When millions of us stand together, there is nothing we cannot accomplish.",Chartis,e8szmvp,SandersForPresident
"Oh yes. Especially with the caucuses in Las Vegas, where the people who actually did throw chairs or whatever it was turned out to be Hillary supporters.",doctordevice,e8tds0q,SandersForPresident
">Please talk about Bernie all the time, maybe encourage people to go read about what he believes. 

Those that would did in 2015 ",MissMeWThatScreenSht,e8tblbd,SandersForPresident
Yeah it's not really true at all but apparently it sounds nice,420Sheep,e8u8vqh,SandersForPresident
But what about Sarah Sanders?,floatiestring,e8uifx1,SandersForPresident
"Oh now it's a joke? He literally said people to beat some guy and said he will pay for the legal bills.

But that's a joke too right. Thanks. ",ByteThis,e8u6r3r,SandersForPresident
" Few exemples on how wrong you are:

""Trump suggests '2nd Amendment people' could stop Clinton"" 

https://amp.usatoday.com/amp/88479722

On protesters:

""If you see somebody getting ready to throw a tomato, knock the crap out of them, would you? Seriously, OK? Just knock the hell ... I promise you I will pay for the legal fees. I promise, I promise,"" he said on Feb. 1, 2016.

 ""He's walking out with big high-fives, smiling, laughing,"" Trump said. ""I'd like to punch him in the face, I'll tell you.""

""Get him out,"" he said of a protester. ""Try not to hurt him. If you do, I'll defend you in court. Don't worry about it.""

Result:

On March 9, 2016, as a protester was being escorted out of a rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina, he was sucker-punched by another attendee.

The media: 

During a rally, Trump praised Gianforte,  ""Greg is smart,"" Mr Trump said of the Montana Congressman convicted of assault on a member of the press, saying “any guy that can do a body slam, he’s my kind of guy.”

""Trump: Media Is ‘Enemy of the American People"" 

https://www.thedailybeast.com/trump-media-is-enemy-of-the-american-people
",rdsf138,e8sy2uk,SandersForPresident
Absolutely.  I am a yuuuuge Bernie fan and this kind of rhetoric makes us sound like HRC followers.  We must do our best to let the integrity of our platform do the talking. ,GajahMahout,e8sxevy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8t6ja8,SandersForPresident
">The War in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster.

>Many thousands of civilians have been killed. Millions are now at the risk of the most severe famine in more than 100 years.  

>* We are providing bombs the Saudi-led coalition is using  
>* We are refueling their planes before they drop those bombs  
>* We are assisting with intelligence  

>An American-made bomb obliterated a school bus full of young boys. American weapons have been used in a string of such deadly attacks on civilians.  

>2015-2018 more than 30% of the Saudi-led coalition’s targets have been nonmilitary.   


---  

>Mr. Pompeo had overruled the State Department’s own regional and military experts. President Trump himself echoed this logic when asked about the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, claiming that the Saudis are spending “$110 billion” on military equipment. A former lobbyist for the arms manufacturer Raytheon leads Mr. Pompeo’s legislative affairs staff.  


>The relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only strengthened with the intensification of the war. The war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve. The conflict between Saudi-led forces and the Houthi insurgents had helped Al Qaeda and the Islamic State’s Yemen branch “deepen their inroads across much of the country.” 

---  

>American engagement there has not been authorized by Congress, and is therefore unconstitutional.  

>1. the war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States. 
>2. the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert authority over matters of war.

>[Senate Joint Resolution 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/54) calls on the president to withdraw from the Saudi-led war in Yemen.  

>The Senate voted 55 to 44 to delay consideration of the resolution. Next month, I intend to bring that resolution back to the floor. 

>The brutal murder of Mr. Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional. Human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers.  

-Bernie, [Oct 24^th '18](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/24/opinion/bernie-sanders-saudi-arabia-war-yemen.html)  

See also: https://whatthefuckjusthappenedtoday.com/archive   

And note that the community guidelines include:  

>Novelty accounts, bots, and trolls are strictly prohibited, and as such will be removed accordingly. This includes any user who come comes to /r/SandersForPresident to be repetitively disagreeable, as well as any user that disrupts the normal operation of the community. You can disagree, but you cannot only disagree.",Chartis,e8t43q9,SandersForPresident
username checks out. ,salamander-,e8t5xif,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8tz0hk,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8u1l1o,SandersForPresident
"Oh yeah, good times. ",DanknugzBlazeit420,e8thm80,SandersForPresident
"I was really hoping for that, too.",PTech_J,e8ud2d1,SandersForPresident
"If she does, she'd be guaranteeing another win for Trump...",iLolo,e8tbs4z,SandersForPresident
Hillary apparently didn't get the memo the first time around. ,mikegreen121,e8tpfz1,SandersForPresident
"That’s horrifying. I don’t consider myself left or right, I voted for Bernie, but I’m whatever on Trump (which is blasphemous as a Hispanic lol).

Hillary is a horrible candidate, I wouldn’t doubt a similar outcome if she ran again, please stay away Hilldawg.

Is Bernie considering running again? Or do you guys think he’s sitting this one out?",crowdeater,e8thghp,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8tekn7,SandersForPresident
"These same talking points come up every time this is posted. 

* Private purchases in lawful sales made outside of federally regulated dealerships are not subject to such rules and are legal unless the gun is used in a crime with the prior knowledge of the straw purchaser.

But even so enforcement is needed to end straw purchases that are illegal. And private sales are not impossible to regulate and should be 'well-regulated'.  

Stalkers aren't disqualified from owning a gun, and 

>[the law’s definition of who is a domestic abuser is “quite specific.” The measure requires, for example, that the victim and the abuser have to have been married or have had a child together, or have lived together. Thus the Lautenberg Amendment does not apply to people who are dating, which gives rise to what advocates call “the boyfriend loophole.”](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/06/us/politics/domestic-abuse-guns-texas-air-force.html)  

All terms are made up. In this case assault weapon is a common term used by US Senators and polling companies in addition to dictionaries and encyclopedias. Codifying it in legislation is part of what Bernie is wisely calling for here.  

To quote Emma: ""[We call BS!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY)""",Chartis,e8tvp4y,SandersForPresident
Source?,ImSuperHighRightNow,e8tzepw,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/enough_sanders_spam] [""Oh yes. Especially with the caucuses in Las Vegas, where the people who actually did throw chairs or whatever it was turned out to be Hillary supporters."" \[+6\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/Enough_Sanders_Spam/comments/9t6pwp/oh_yes_especially_with_the_caucuses_in_las_vegas/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8u1ozz,SandersForPresident
Really don't think so. Unfortunately a lot of people don't care until it's past the primaries. ,Cyndakaiser,e8tcjzt,SandersForPresident
Source?,Supringsinglyawesome,e8u9mvb,SandersForPresident
... Do you not understand what every single day means? ,pedantic--asshole,e8syu89,SandersForPresident
So trump has incited violence a lot. But is that every day? No,MarkIsAPeasant,e8sz6fi,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8t8l5t,SandersForPresident
Oh wow that's a great point ,pedantic--asshole,e8t4lj6,SandersForPresident
"Only if the super delegates do what they do again.

Hey super delegates I hope you see this.  You backed a loser.

&#x200B;",AceBacker,e8ti8j7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8tc8yg,SandersForPresident
"Indications seem to be pointing towards him running again, but nothing too concrete yet. ",DanknugzBlazeit420,e8thnwc,SandersForPresident
How are you whatever on Trump? Like he’s sort of okay and sort of bad or you just don’t care about anything his administration has done so far?,barrelfever,e8tpxkc,SandersForPresident
"Agree that Clinton was not a good candidate, but she would make a far better president than the thermonuclear bowel evacuation currently disgracing the Oval Office. I'd love to see a woman president some day - just not one tainted with as much shady jiggery-pokery as Hillary.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8ue5up,SandersForPresident
"Here is a link to form 4473, the form you fill out for every gun purchase from any gunstore, paw shop, or any persons who make a living off of selling guns. https://www.atf.gov/firearms/atf-form-4473-firearms-transaction-record-revisions
I'll direct you to line h. Where is specifically mentions stalking, harassment, and domestic abuse. 
As far Assault weapons are concerned. Give me a definition of what an assault weapon is and explain to me how those features make it any different than any of the other guns that are not assault weapons. Just because a politician uses a word does mean they know at all what they are talking about or that the word or phrase has any meaning.",enameless,e8tw3wu,SandersForPresident
"https://youtu.be/S3HUVIZQc-Q

https://youtu.be/1es9MZyyPOA

Here you go. Him asking for violence in more than 1 occasion. ",ByteThis,e8uc9q5,SandersForPresident
 I assumed the OP was being hyperbolic but if you think his overall point was wrong you should watch any of Trump's speeches. ,rdsf138,e8sz9lh,SandersForPresident
To assume that Rebecca meant 'Donald Trump incites violence in Bernie's speeches every single day' rather than 'Donald Trump incites violence every single day' may require a reconsideration. ,Chartis,e8t5jhl,SandersForPresident
"He doesn't have to tell them to be violent. The demonizing mob mentality he creates and fuels does that for him.
Which is a serious problem with his constant twitter fits and rallies spewing the us vs. them mentality.",Technologic92,e8t0gdq,SandersForPresident
 That was just hyperbolic if you watch any of his rallies you would think you're among a christian mob in medieval Europe. ,rdsf138,e8szg4p,SandersForPresident
"They know and I doubt they care, they're still getting paid.",SkyWest1218,e8tjqud,SandersForPresident
"They literally will. Who here thinks Democratic Party donors would prefer Bernie over Trump? All these big corporations bankrolling the DNC want to increase taxes and provide UHC? Yeah, right.

If you look back at the history of the DNC they do this sort of shit literally any time anybody even slightly to the left approaches the Presidency.

FDR literally had to threaten to quit the presidency ***in the middle of the war*** to prevent party bosses from maneuvering George Wallace out of his VP spot. He didn't do the same 4 years later, though, and through quite a degree of chicanery we got Truman as VP.

IMO if it weren't for corrupt DNC bullshit (and, obvs, capitalism) the cold war would never have happened. ",ohgodwhatthe,e8u0zpq,SandersForPresident
But but but only one super delegate voted outside of his districts vote.... it didn’t change the election...,dangerdaves,e8u2n9a,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8tejmp,SandersForPresident
"I really hope so. He’s healthy, sharp, and can still hype a crowd up. Let’s get it, Bernie! 🤘",crowdeater,e8thx2d,SandersForPresident
"My family & most friends get really really mad at everything he does or says. I don’t. To me he’s just your typical politician, corrupt, lies, etc. 

The difference is he just doesn’t give a fuck and says what’s on his mind. A part of me respects that, unlike most politicians that say 1 thing in public, but behind closed doors say another. 

I obviously understand that’s not very presidential, but I think most people who voted for him or followed the election closely knew if he won it would not be your typical President/administration. 

I just can’t understand how so many people can get so deeply emotional about this. Most people continue on with their lives. I had family & friends deported by the Obama administration, so I don’t get why so many Hispanics or people in general act like Trump is the first to do this. 

Every administration has deported people, gotten involved in some sort of war/s, or shady shit... you know? The usual stuff. So that’s why I’m whatever. I don’t like or hate the Donald. ",crowdeater,e8trf5b,SandersForPresident
"And yet that form doesn't apply to all gun purchases, and as noted in the article  

>There are a lot of gaps in the instant criminal background check system; the data is only as good as what goes into it. So if the data is not in the system, obviously there is a giant loophole there.  

And enforcement is needed to match what legislation does exist.  

You can certainly look up assault weapon without my help. Bernie does know what he's talking about. The talking points put forth by the NRA are not trustworthy. That you won't acknowledge any of the benefits of any of the data is worrisome. Are you one of the 3% of Americans that don't support universal background checks?",Chartis,e8ty11x,SandersForPresident
Look at his username ,IolausTelcontar,e8t04sx,SandersForPresident
"Stop disagreeing with me, that's against the rules. You have to agree with me sometimes. ",pedantic--asshole,e8t90lg,SandersForPresident
That may be true but like he was saying if you say that trump incites violence every day that’s just factually wrong and serves to give those against our cause ammunition against us and can stir others away if they think we’re spreading misinformation ,MarkIsAPeasant,e8szkwe,SandersForPresident
"This isn’t a very helpful way of looking at the world.  They’re still people, and the majority of them probably thought they were doing what was best to get a D in the White House.  

Terribly misguided, yes, but I would bet most would give almost anything to roll back the clock and do whatever it takes to keep Trump out.",Topikk,e8ue04a,SandersForPresident
">George Wallace

You mean Henry Wallace. George Wallace is rather infamous for being a prominent segregationist/Dixiecrat candidate in the 60s/70s.",labordispute,e8u43vi,SandersForPresident
"At least for the next week I highly suggest that anytime this question pulls at our minds that we dig into the activism links on the sidebar to help make President Sanders more likely. For now here's some of the trend on [the matter:](https://i.redd.it/n3quxuteteu11.jpg)  

He's releasing [Where We Go From Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>If I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8ti5xu,SandersForPresident
"He’s not typical.  Obama did not separate families at the border and lock up the children.  Obama did not put the most conservative judges on the Supreme Court that *will* vote against the interest of consumers and workers.

If you think he is typical you’re not paying attention. ",ShadowAssassinQueef,e8u860r,SandersForPresident
"It applies to every gun purchase that isn't a private sell. Private sales are next to impossible to regulate. I 100% agree current laws need to be enforced. My point on Assault weapons is  there isn't a definition. The definition in the old AWB was the firearms mentioned by name and any semi-auto rifle with a detachable magazine with 2 or more arbitrary features. Most those features in no way made the weapon more dangerous (pistol grip, barrel shroud, folding stock, etc.) As far as this subject Bernie does not appear to know what he is talking about. None of my information comes from the NRA, like most gun owners I'm not a member. If any of my points mirrors theirs it's because it's true. I get all my info from my own research as well as my experiance purchasing firearms. For the record gun-control group talking points are just as untrustworthy as NRA talking points. Do your own research. Oh an what data? You've provided none. Finally no I am not against universal background checks, you'll note that wasn't one of the things I took issue with. I personally think the instant background check system system should be opened to the public,most gun owners would welcome that piece of mind. ",enameless,e8tzj8c,SandersForPresident
"That gave me a chuckle and puts me in a bit of a tight spot. Pointing out that the guideline doesn't state a specific person, only infers that some comments must in good faith try to advance the ideas that will result in Sanders becoming President would sound needlessly contrarian. Which is too bad because I'd really like to echo back ""that's a great point"". C'est la vie I guess. Be well.",Chartis,e8t9boq,SandersForPresident
"If the best ammo they can use is ""b-b-but he doesn't incite violence and hate EVERY day! Your complaints mean nothing!"" then they don't have very strong legs to stand on such hateful conviction. 

Just that they enjoy being hateful. I honestly believe that.",Crocigator,e8t70ys,SandersForPresident
I hope to god that Biden doesn't run. I don't want 2016 two electricboogaloo. ,dyyyy,e8tylbz,SandersForPresident
"> Private sales are next to impossible to regulate.

No they're not, they've been regulated to good effect in other countries. And even if so, by your own admission it's not impossible.  

>Most those features  

So by your own admission some of those features do make them more dangerous.  

Federal regulations are Bernie's job. He's an honest actor, a talented legislator, a wise and intelligent person, and has an excellent staff.   

Your own research is influenced by the hundreds of millions the NRA has spent to push their untrustworthy messaging.  

Bernie provided several data points in his address to the Senate, some of which I hotlinked.  

Thank you for expressing support for universal background checks and for demonstrating that even those who disagree with Bernie on some polices have supported him in his pursuit of public office.",Chartis,e8tzx8n,SandersForPresident
"I tend to think that Sanders has a lot of great opinions and a lot of stupid opinions too. Seeing how I don't want to stand around and pat each other on the back all day, I'd rather post when I disagree with something... Guess I won't last long here. ",pedantic--asshole,e8tprh9,SandersForPresident
It’s not the best ammo they can get most have proper arguments for why they’re ideas are better. We just add to the bullshit match of shouting at each other when we spread misinformation. We should not be doing it just for the cause of no spreading misinformation anyway,MarkIsAPeasant,e8t8pn2,SandersForPresident
"Yea prohibition and the war on drugs would have to disagree with you on that. The only features on the list that could be argued are suppressors and grenade launchers. Suppressors don't work the way they do in movies short of a .22lr using subsonic ammo even with a suppressor guns are loud. Grenade launcher would indeed make a gun more dangerous, if one could actually obtain grenades for it (they can't legally). Just because Bernie is a politician doesn't mean he is knowledgable on everything. Also you know why the Dickey amendment exists right? It was passed because the CDC was doing biased studies with the purpose of enacting stricter gun control. That's the CDC putting out false information, so it's funny you think the NRA has all this control. Also perhaps you missed the first sentence of my original reply, I voted for Bernie in the primaries, I agree with him on most things. That doesn't make him infallible and doesn't mean can't be wrong about things. Again do your own research. Read the various bills, talk to someone that owns guns, hell try purchasing a gun.",enameless,e8u0vuu,SandersForPresident
"Right, racism and hate are valid viewpoints with plenty of reasonable arguments supporting both. /s",Crocigator,e8tddsn,SandersForPresident
"Again: firearms have been regulated to good effect in other countries.  

Bernie has a top self staff and his personal approach to management is as superb as his wisdom on matters. Your assertions so far have proven much less solid.  

>It was passed because the CDC was doing biased studies  

No, that's not the driving force behind why the Dickey amendment passed:  

>Recipients of money from firms in favor of network neutrality, such as Netflix or Google, whose access to users could be affected, were considerably more likely to vote in favor of Markey’s amendment: Every additional $1,000 dollars decreased the odds of voting against by 24%. Similarly, contributions from firms opposed to network neutrality were also telling: every 
$1,000 increased the chances of a vote against by 2.6%. The more conservative a representative was, the more likely he or she was to vote against network neutrality.

-[Fifty Shades of Green: High Finance, Political Money, and the U.S. Congress](http://rooseveltinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/FiftyShadesofGreen_0517.pdf), May 2017

>The American public actually have little influence over the policies our government adopts.. America's claims to being a democratic society are seriously threatened.. Not only do ordinary citizens not have uniquely substantial power over policy decisions; they have little or no independent influence on policy at all.. economic elites stand out as quite influential more so than any other set of actors studied here.. both individual economic elites and organized interest groups (including corporations, largely owned and controlled by wealthy elites) play a substantial part in affecting public policy, but the general public has little or no independent influence.  

-[Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens]( https://scholar.princeton.edu/sites/default/files/mgilens/files/gilens_and_page_2014_-testing_theories_of_american_politics.doc.pdf
), Sept 2014  
  
I own firearms.",Chartis,e8u1j0s,SandersForPresident
"That Dickey amendment stuff you pointed out, is what the FDA does with food where they let basically the most misleading claims from self-inflicted studies  by food companies because the FDA is loaded AKA getting paid big time.",rich2b181,e8u67u4,SandersForPresident
"Other countries are not the US. ""I was in Govt. that changed Aussie gun laws. Guns are more pervasive & cultural here in USA. We all 'wish' for change but it'd be a miracle."" Joe Hockey Australian ambassador. 
Go look up the Dickey Amendment and get back to me, it was enacted in 1996 and had nothing to do with net neutrality. Also I am well aware that the American public has little influence over policy decisions. Not sure your point in posting that.",enameless,e8u1ufj,SandersForPresident
Well gather proof of that and try to get an FDA version of the Dickey amendment. Biased studies are fake science and I don't approve. Just because the FDA does it doesn't mean the CDC should be allowed to.,enameless,e8uv28v,SandersForPresident
"Yup, other countries have common sense firearm legislation that is effective. As do some states in this regard. And by your own admission it's not impossible. Firearm use is not nearly well-regulated enough nationally.  

I'm [familiar](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/7yicsw/cdc_scientists_plea_to_congress_let_us_research/) with the Dickey amendment.

And that point is but an example in that paper that supports the greater findings. Which are in line with what the other study found to be true. They are cited here as data to support the point I made: Just because a policy is passed does not mean it's wise.",Chartis,e8u2vev,SandersForPresident
"I'm not arguing with you, so don't assume a claim that wasn't made.",rich2b181,e8wmdp8,SandersForPresident
Define effective. Did those countries see an overall drop in violent crime as compared to the same time period as the US? Were suicide rates reduced? If not it wasn't effective in anything or than shifting the method. A reduction in gun crime is meaningless. Of course less guns means less gun crimes. Just like if you banned trucks you'd see a reduction in truck related DWIs but if total DWIs doesn't fall who cares. As far as the dickey amendment it was literally passed because the CDC had an anti-gun agenda and funded studies specifically to support its agenda. Did the NRA lobby for it? Yes but that does not mean the CDC was not acting shady. Just because a group you don't like passed a law you don't like doesn't mean it's bad. Look it's obvious we aren't going to agree on this subject. So I'm going to call it a night.,enameless,e8u5agy,SandersForPresident
What exactly did I assume? You said the FDA does the same thing. If that is the case than it shouldn't be happening.,enameless,e8x058d,SandersForPresident
"As in [having a beneficial effect.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/opinions/gun-control-that-works/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.f7a528dc1300)  

[U.S. states with the strongest firearm laws have fewer gun-related murders and fewer suicides than states that take a more permissive approach to regulating these weapons](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamainternalmedicine/article-abstract/2673375)  

As those studies point out financial contributions have a causal effect on public policy.  

May you rest well.",Chartis,e8u5lqd,SandersForPresident
"The last line you wrote. I didn't say any agency needs to do anything, but you implied I did. My comment was off-topic.",rich2b181,e8yqoth,SandersForPresident
"Fewer GUN- related murders. Did the overall murder rate go down? If not it does not matter. Using CN as an example their murder rate stayed people close to the same before and after they required background checks on private sales. Also only lawzabiding citizens are paying $20 to have a background check performed before a sale. Someone intent on breaking one law(murder) isn't going to give a shit breaking a second (the background check). Again for ever illegal, banned, hard to get item, there exist a black market where some criminal is getting rich on it.",enameless,e8uvf9l,SandersForPresident
">lower overall suicide rates  

And regulating dangerous items makes them harder to get and lessens the harm. Such as those people who didn't commit suicide or  get destroyed by nuclear weapons or chemical weapons. Law are effective. And firearms are poorly regulated in the US. It's time they are well regulated with proper legislation and sufficient enforcement. Bernie's slate of common sense firearm legislation is wise. ",Chartis,e8uvwth,SandersForPresident
"And I disagree, and that's where we're at.",enameless,e8vdbtk,SandersForPresident
You disagree that states with the strongest firearm legislation had lower overall suicide rates? Or that laws have an effect on human behavior that can benefit society? I know you think some further firearm regulations would be wise since you're in favor of universal background checks.,Chartis,e8vevb1,SandersForPresident
Last reply was an acknowledgement that this debate is going no where. I can pick apart a lot of what you said but in the end you'll come back with your points and this will continue in a continuous loop until one said gives up but in the end no minds will be changed. We are both dug in to our respective opinion. So I'm choosing to end the conversation with a simple agree to disagree.,enameless,e8x0llz,SandersForPresident
"If you concede your objections to the original statement by withdrawing that speaks to the strength of your arguments. Common sense firearm regulation is warranted and effective, such as in lowering overall suicide rates (which is double the homicide rate). Thank you for supporting Bernie and legislation such as universal background checks. Be well.",Chartis,e8x18re,SandersForPresident
"I don't concede to anything. Again I can't continue to pick apart your arguments such as South Korea has fairly strict guns laws yet is top 5 in the world in suicides. Or that even though I am pro the idea of universal backgrounds checks  in practice it won't work. Only honest citizens follow the law and there are millions of guns with no paper trail to their current owners. Lots of stuff looks good on paper, works in smaller areas/communities,  etc. That just won't work with a country our scale and size. So in closing no I don't concede any of my points. I just don't wish to waste anymore of my time with this. Changing your mind does absolutely nothing.",enameless,e8xss4h,SandersForPresident
"Guess your statement ""I'm choosing to end the conversation"" was also in error.

As you said ""Other countries are not the US."" Your bias in picking arguments that support your position isn't doing you any favors in having an informed position. And if even people who incorrectly think some of Bernie's positions ""won't work"" support legislation we can see how politically expedient well-regulated firearm legislation is.",Chartis,e8xwhvj,SandersForPresident
It is easier in the short term to over take the democratic party rather than to grow a third party. In the long term I support growing third parties but for now focus on kicking out the corporate neoliberals from the dem party and transforming it into a working class party.,TomBurcher,e8w3vws,SandersForPresident
"i agree.  and i am a big fan of jimmy and don't begrudge him for pressing this issue.  But i think if the establishment democrats win this upcoming civil war,  there is a chance that the situation may change and maybe we will be better off going for the other strategy.  But i don't see that yet.  Hopefully we can reach a tipping point where the democratic sycophants have no choice but to do the right thing.

jimmy talks about what changed with sanders in 30 years i think Bernie answers that question in the video that jimmy usually shows.  people vote democrats because third parties don't win.  that hasn't changed.  It may not be logical but it's true.",StormalongJuan,e8wxib5,SandersForPresident
People in other countries are shocked that in the USA if you get get cancer you better win the lottery the next day or you won't be able to afford treatment.,RanLearns,e8vjh2k,SandersForPresident
Fuck this guy and his stupid moustache,BopTheDrass,e8vuxfa,SandersForPresident
How does anyone take this clown seriously? ,BopTheDrass,e8v0tnj,SandersForPresident
"“Dude. You’re racist.”

“NO YOU ARE!”",captainmo017,e8v19el,SandersForPresident
"Haven't you seen youtube? ""Ben Shapiro DESTROYS feminist/SJW/BLM blah blah blah"". He's done excellent marketing on the new media. It's sad, because people like him and Milo (before he imploded) helped reintroduce bad right wing arguments into the millennial generation. I was hoping they'd just die off ...",RetroPink,e8vgzce,SandersForPresident
"Ignorant people elevate idiots that agree with them because it makes them feel smarter, e.g. Kanye West.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e8v5h5i,SandersForPresident
"The Left are accused of calling people like Shapiro or Jordan Peterson alt-right, and to a degree the accusation is true. But it seems to me that it's more a matter that the right are claiming them as one of theirs.  The image of the bible thumping conservative has become anemic, and thus some rebranding is in order.  And in this rebranding period Ben Shapiro gets to make a living...",wamsachel,e8vl9d1,SandersForPresident
"I somehow ended up in a debate with a fellow student about establishing UHC in America, which I had done a major research project on that week. He didn't concede; he simply told me to ""Google Ben Shapiro."" I guess my classmate was hoping Ben would ""destroy"" my argument for him. lol",TheNewThirteen,e8wun25,SandersForPresident
"It is sad Kyle but this is what Bernie, and the progressive movement, has faced forever.

If you go on CNN and MSNABC they have Pharma and Medical INSURANCE/INDUSTRY ads going around the clock. No meaningful information on Med4All. Now it is Obamacare bis great all the time.

Obamacare is a bandaid on a gunshot wound.

Medicare 4 All is what will win 2020.

Whether they show Bernie or not. Many people are woke.
",GMBoy,e8umw82,SandersForPresident
"Go full ""FDR"" in the 2020's.

Inform people what FDR did..... Why he did what he did...... and why we need more of the same.

Medicare 4 ALL and FDR stimulus for the middle class.

Only way.

Nothing more American then FDR. Let Trump and the Fine Young Fascists (band name) run against FDR.",GMBoy,e8uovse,SandersForPresident
It's artificial. He will be the Jeb! of 2020.,BopTheDrass,e8vv1tb,SandersForPresident
"My favorite are the sympathetic hard-core conservatives. ""I didn't want 'your side' to win but damn did Bernie get done wrong""

To anybody but the neoliberals who pretend nothing happened, it is plain as day that Bernie and the Progressives (band name) got a screw job. We see it, they see it, but the neoliberal left still gaslights us into insisting there was nothing wrong.

Maybe that's why we get called Ruskies/alt-right trolls so much when we bring this point up. There is some overlap between the group of people who saw the foul play and lack of coverage.",robotzor,e8uoks7,SandersForPresident
"In every election, the Democrats make the case of the Republican bogeyman and the need to vote Democrat.

As Nairn puts it and makes a well-reasoned case for, the fascist threat to democracy is *real* this time with Trump openly advocating doing away with constitutional amendments by executive order, and so voting for the war-mongering Democrats (his words) is *required* just to *preserve* democracy and the republic.

If we remember the boy who cried wolf story, after repeatedly crying wolf wasn't the boy eaten when the *real wolf* arrived? Could this be the situation in the US today?",miazzelt40,e8v72no,SandersForPresident
">You have to, at this moment, vote in the warmongers who will preserve democracy to block the warmongers who would abolish it—and then, the day after the election, go back to the deeper work of creating real, better, more constructive political alternatives and also helping the base of the Democratic Party take back the party from the consultants, from the rich donors.",AngelaMotorman,e8v7q7b,SandersForPresident
Arm yourselves.,GoldcoinforRosey,e8vjtzh,SandersForPresident
True :)  but it takes a lot of meds to get there.,fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8v81sa,SandersForPresident
">We need your help. And that means knocking on doors, making sure that your friends and family and co-workers come out to vote.    

>The political revolution is not just a progressive agenda that speaks to the needs of working families. It is the need to create a national grassroots movement where ordinary people stand up to the billionaire class and take back this country. You can help lead this country in that direction.  

>We are living in unprecedented political times and in a pivotal moment in American history. The stakes are enormously high, not only for you but for children, our grandchildren, and the future of this planet. That is what is at stake. And nobody with a political or moral consciousness has the right to throw their arms up in despair and say 'I'm depressed, I'm discouraged, I'm not going to get involved'. [The antidote to depression is activism!](https://youtu.be/3S1C--Tldq8?t=3298)  

>On virtually every major issue facing the people of this country, the overwhelming majority of Americans are on our side. We have to organize.  

-Bernie, July 13^th 2018",Chartis,e8v40q1,SandersForPresident
This is fire,LeafRunner,e8vaph7,SandersForPresident
What a video! ,bernielution,e8vd89p,SandersForPresident
"It would be so beyond huge if he were to pull this off. DWS should be in prison, not in office.

Tied, as an independent! Amazing.",BopTheDrass,e8txcew,SandersForPresident
OMG I can't believe this!! Would be so great if she lost,sasiralla,e8u6uf7,SandersForPresident
Please join u/4now5now6now and I this weekend in making some calls for Tim. He can actually pull this off but it's close and he needs our help to put him over the top. Anything you can do to help turn out voters for him in his district. Don't just hope for the best!,Grizzly_Madams,e8uiec1,SandersForPresident
Stlll Canova! He is still the most brilliant candidate !,4now5now6now,e8tvvg4,SandersForPresident
"Not that I don't believe it, but do you have a poll or anything that shows them tied?",NickolaosDSA,e8tzphl,SandersForPresident
The time to act is now. Phonebank this district and let the people know he is tied with Debbie without threatening a republican win.,Zincoshine_2018,e8u3kjv,SandersForPresident
"Gave $27. Tim is flat broke right now [opensecrets.com](https://opensecrets.com) shows he has \~$30k

&#x200B;

[https://www.opensecrets.org/races/summary?cycle=2018&id=FL23](https://www.opensecrets.org/races/summary?cycle=2018&id=FL23)

&#x200B;

$30 is a couple beers and a burger on a Friday night. Stay home tomorrow instead and going out and kick the difference over to Canova.",GangstaRIB,e8uytf2,SandersForPresident
"I heard him say some strange things in 2016 but I forget what it was... Still better than Debbie ""payday lender"" WS tho :)",lovely_sombrero,e8tw08q,SandersForPresident
"if there was an election in which a reckoning should come, this would be it. DWS has to go.",rommelo,e8wexfy,SandersForPresident
"I know.... I'm so excited! He is so detailed an flawless on every issue.

",4now5now6now,e8txwc7,SandersForPresident
"Sure I put the link in the text... but here it is

It was in the Floridian 

https://floridianpress.com/2018/10/gop-poll-may-have-wasserman-schultz-and-canova-tied/
",4now5now6now,e8tzvjn,SandersForPresident
thank you for donating! I gave $27 ... I rather stay home and watch comedy :)  ,4now5now6now,e8v0ups,SandersForPresident
"There is no comparison between this brilliant candidate and the corrupt dws.... predatory pay day loan lenders is just one of a hundred issues that she is bought off on.... He fought against big sugar run off in 2016... two companies in Florida that donate to her.... this year an enormous percentage of fish have died from the algae ...
tourism, water quality, fishing industry destroyed.

big sugar run off has helped create this

Yes you are right about pay day loans.... there used to be usury laws

Here is what Tim Canova has to say on the issue

""Though economists tell us that the 2008 Great Recession ended years ago, many Americans have been left behind by the economic recovery. In this time of so much economic uncertainty, millions of hardworking American families are living paycheck to paycheck and are increasingly relying on payday loans to keep up with their bills and make ends meet.

Payday loans are short-term loans, generally less than $500 in value that come due when the borrower collects their next paycheck. While the amounts being borrowed are relatively low, the interest rates on these loans are shockingly high. Most credit cards companies charge between 15 and 30 percent annual interest, but payday lenders typically charge more than 300 percent annual interest for their loans. Worse yet, due to the high cost of borrowing and the very short repayment period for payday loans, the consumers that rely on them often become trapped in what President Obama called “a vicious cycle of debt.”

Despite their predatory lending tactics, the universal outcry of consumer protection groups and the condemnation of leaders such as Sen. Elizabeth Warren and President Obama, my opponent Debbie Wasserman Schultz has accepted tens of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from payday lenders. If this were not enough, my opponent has also joined Republicans in co-sponsoring a bill that would delay the regulation of payday lenders for years and continue to burden millions of working families with endless debt. This is why the editorial board of the Sun Sentinel has called on Wasserman Schultz to “not swim with loan sharks.”

Debbie Wasserman Schultz has also voted to prevent President Obama’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) from issuing regulations against “racial redlining” in the auto loan market. There should be no place in our society for these kinds of predatory financial practices, including those that discriminate against people on the basis of race, ethnicity, gender or other personal characteristics.

When I am elected to Congress I promise to regulate the payday lending industry. I will work hard to limit the loan shark style practices of the payday lending industry and the debt traps they work so hard to create. I also promise to propose alternatives – like postal banking – to give working families access to the type of small loans they may need in an emergency, but at much lower interest rates. By working together, we can put a stop to this greedy industry that exploits hard working families and find new solutions for the people of Florida""( Tim Canova, 2018).

",4now5now6now,e8twqvl,SandersForPresident
"Well, he isn't flawless on some foreign policy questions like Iran (probably because of conservative Jewish voters in the district?), but that's a small fraction of his otherwise great policy platform. I never in my wildest dreams expected him to be able to challenge DWS as an indie after how many Dems in the district happily gave DWS a pass on her blatant sycophant corruption.",S3lvah,e8uf5om,SandersForPresident
Do you know if there's phone banking for Tim?,NickolaosDSA,e8u0s13,SandersForPresident
"Ah thanks, I thought that was an article on DWS' affiliation with payday lenders. It's getting late lol ",NickolaosDSA,e8tzx1g,SandersForPresident
"It costs $10 to go out and buy a sandwich and $2 to make one at home. I know some people can't donate due to location but yes donating is probably the #1 way to get a candidate elected unfortunately. 

Hey the billionaires buy politicians all of the time, how would you like to own a piece of your very own politician looking out for your interests? Medicare 4 all, minimum wage, a progressing nation!

Glad to see people like yourself kicking in. I think Canova raised close to $2M last round he's blown through the $500k he had raised in 2018 but apparently has become known in CD-23.

Also, there are phone banks. I have been getting a lot of texts lately as well (not for Tim but other Dems) is there a 'text bank' available for Tim anyone know? Atleast with texting you don't have to worry about being shy and what not. ",GangstaRIB,e8v27bz,SandersForPresident
There is. OP and I are going to hit the phones for him. Join us! :D You can sign up [here](https://signup.timcanova.com/) but they're probably incredibly busy - especially after this poll leaked - so if you don't hear back from them I'd call their office and try to get set up that way. 954-367-3877 is the number.,Grizzly_Madams,e8uiq10,SandersForPresident
"To help volunteer: http://signup.tchq.us  (you can volunteer to make phone calls)

To donate: http://ow.ly/Q6ka30moZCg

Check events: https://www.facebook.com/TimCanovaFL/",jpdemers,e8u6t5r,SandersForPresident
"Maryland 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://elections.maryland.gov/voting/early_voting.html): October 25-November 1, 2018 

[General Election](https://voterservices.elections.maryland.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration/InstructionsStep1): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8w7jq1,SandersForPresident
This is *Man in the High Castle* shit,robotzor,e8v29ei,SandersForPresident
wth is this?,Etamitlu,e8v6vle,SandersForPresident
"President...  of Vermont, post-secession GDP/capita same as Venezuela.",lbmn,e99k85x,SandersForPresident
A pipe dream or fantasy if you will.  We all know he would never take ALL the southern states.,ZombieGenius,e8vfmhq,SandersForPresident
Since when did a candidate have to take ALL the southern states to win?,filmantopia,e8vvdkw,SandersForPresident
"Obviously they don't but in this clip he didn't just win, he won every state.",ZombieGenius,e8xd0yj,SandersForPresident
"Oh, I see. Didn't watch the clip.",filmantopia,e8xdc2k,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8wferc,SandersForPresident
"They all pander to the rich, which is why  the establishment every fair and foul means they could think of to get Bernie out of the competition.

So happy to see that the Bern has not quietly retired.  Run in 2020!",Dunan,e8ulnvg,SandersForPresident
Let's go Beto!,RanLearns,e8utn2q,SandersForPresident
">the dems pander to the rich

ironic isnt it",Return_TheSlab,e8vzeq7,SandersForPresident
"He’s channeling Chomsky pretty well.  I love this clip:

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=VjRW6-E9tjU&t=2m33s",theodorAdorno,e8u5gpk,SandersForPresident
"This is great! When Cenk said during his speech that ""journalists don't even see that they're being bias"" AND she comes out after and total proves his point.  One of the best speeches he has ever done hands down. Pretty sure the National Establishment Press Club will not be inviting him back after that epic schooling he delivered.",katatafiish,e8ucotw,SandersForPresident
"[@billmckibben:](https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1057782694891925505)

* People who believe rural America is unchangeably conservative are wrong--I've campaigned in a lot of rural districts this fall, and am hopeful Tuesday may open some eyes. Vote!!",Chartis,e8u0b46,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8tunld,SandersForPresident
That you are rural America as the proletariat is telling.,steak4take,e8u2tjl,SandersForPresident
"IIRC every poll showed Trump overwhelmingly losing the presidency. He didn't. Not voting because you think your candidate will win so you don't need to vote is a terrible idea. Not voting because you think they don't have a chance is also a terrible idea. Seriously, just vote.",radioactivecowz,e8s4bkf,SandersForPresident
"[@AriRabinHavt:](https://twitter.com/AriRabinHavt/status/1051325909951762432)

* New rule: for every minute you spend wasting time reading polls, commit to 5 of GOTV work",Chartis,e8rajsm,SandersForPresident
"We have to OBLITERATE them... ignore the polls. Get EVERYONE you know to vote! 

Go out.. get 2 people to vote.. then make THEM get 2 people to vote!

",brainhack3r,e8slci8,SandersForPresident
"VOTE VOTE VOTE

Ask your family and friends if they will vote. If they say ""no"", drag their asses to the polling station. 

It's basically over if there is no blue wave. Trump will get another 2 years to slowly chip away at the system, rigging it in his favour. ",Radeh,e8s622q,SandersForPresident
Vote for strong progressives and let’s put the orange asshole in prison together!,skellener,e8seytx,SandersForPresident
"Exactly. Just go out and vote, regardless of what the polls are saying. We all remember what happened last time with the polls back in 2016. We can't let that happen ever again. ",Midnight_arpeggio,e8sgu0m,SandersForPresident
"This is exactly what I’ve told all my friends.  No more complacency, just vote even if you know everyone else is.",DeathSpank,e8s8uc2,SandersForPresident
"My family's ballots are done and submitted. If you're serious about saving your future, yours should be done too. Don't be complacent. ",Hyperion1144,e8skmbz,SandersForPresident
Complacent? I think we're probably going to lose everything.,wscuraiii,e8s76e2,SandersForPresident
"Most democrats sort of suck and take corporate money tho... Blue no matter who is sort of what got us into this mess.

",thesilverpig,e8rx00k,SandersForPresident
Someone paid for those polls!,Devilman6979,e8ruey4,SandersForPresident
For fuckin real.,TheGreatOni19,e8s7a96,SandersForPresident
Maybe the endorsement process should also ignore polls,OMG_its_JasonE,e8s7vgy,SandersForPresident
"Vote like your election is going to be decided by one vote, and it's yours.

Even if you think the Democrats have it in the bag (they don't), worst case scenario of voting when you think you don't have to is that it increases the margin, thereby increasing the _message_.  I can't imagine a situation in which the Republicans get humbled, but let's shoot for that, shall we?",readparse,e8siqb4,SandersForPresident
"You're right, but to be clear, it was within the margin of error. Like most of the current election, hint hint. ;-P",Ashmedai,e8s6gcs,SandersForPresident
Also only going to vote for one candidate is a waste. Look up all that you will be voting on when going to the polls. Local races and issues are up all the time. ,StockmanBaxter,e8shx9z,SandersForPresident
"Nope.
[Here's 'Fake news' CNN putting Trump ahead.](
https://www.cnn.com/2016/11/01/politics/presidential-poll-donald-trump-hillary-clinton-abc/index.html)",Male_strom,e8shqoo,SandersForPresident
"Nah fam, every poll showed Trump overwhelmingly losing to Bernie. Then the DNC stupidly forced Clinton into the Democratic nomination through shady methods, and she only maintained a few point margin.

A lot of people dislike the Clintons, including Democrats. I think the polls that showed Hillary ahead failed to take that into account.",undergroundsounds,e8sbxf8,SandersForPresident
Except for that Hillary vs Trump poll. I recall that being pretty damn close.,-Master-Builder-,e8sdgdm,SandersForPresident
well he lost the popular vote so the polls were technically correct.,minnesota_hunters,e8sfhou,SandersForPresident
"Bringing out votes is even more powerful than voting. Be who is needed.

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Ballot Initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)  

[This is what victory looks like.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqtdCCOXQAYAEkd.jpg)  ",Chartis,e8shvga,SandersForPresident
"Don't count on him chipping away ""slowly.""",Antsy27,e8s6e06,SandersForPresident
">drag their asses to the polling station.

Or... remind them ahead of time that they can vote at their leisure by absentee ballot. So many non-voters and actual voters don't know this. ",plywooden,e8sfxkj,SandersForPresident
"Democrats are going to get worked in the Senate. Probably +3 to 5 seat gain for the GOP.

GOP will lose seats in the House, but maintain control I believe. But even with some gains by Democrats, the new GOP replacing other GOP is a lot of the more pro-Trump.",Gringo1383,e8smvjd,SandersForPresident
Everyone is so sure about a blue wave they're counting their chickens before they hatch.  They really need to vote and not just assume they'll win.  It infuriates me when people just don't seem that driven to vote.  But I'm seeing a lot of early voting this year so we will see.  It's not like the republicans aren't beyond using shady methods to stay in power either.,aliensporebomb,e8sf29h,SandersForPresident
I’ve been wondering if the media is saying that to drive people to vote? ,brunicus,e8s889g,SandersForPresident
"Same here. We just aren't ready, even with the Trumpian threat.  It's not in our culture to vote and to change that takes serious time and things worse than Trump to make people go to the polls. I'm in a blue as can be state and I'll still GOTV but I'm keeping my expectations low.",keyed_yourcar,e8s972p,SandersForPresident
"I didn't see a good progressive for the Ohio governorship so I went with the Green who arguably was the most Bernie-like candidate. I voted, but a lot of people will say I shouldn't have.",robotzor,e8sshkq,SandersForPresident
That's why we have to fight hard on the primaries. In the general a Democrat is still far superior to a Republican. ,Headinclouds100,e8rz7kq,SandersForPresident
That's why Joe Donnelly in Indiana just said he'd consider legislation repealing the 14th Amendment. Blue No matter Who is bullshit,juangarces1979,e8s5u4p,SandersForPresident
"Beats fascism, though.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e8s3wlr,SandersForPresident
"I think it's the opposite. Voters staying home because neither option is perfect is what got us into this mess.
EVERY election will always be to choose the better of the current candidates, not the ideal candidate.  If you set your expectations accordingly, you can incrementally change things for the better. Or you can stay home and watch them rapidly get worse. ",uberjim,e8s4qre,SandersForPresident
"um no... it's people like you who got us into this mess.

handing power over to republicans time and time again because ""muh democrats take corporate money"" and allowing republicans to gerrymander, stack the courts, and suppress voters. allowing them to punch through cases in the SC that have been terrible for the environment and allow corporations to pollute more + ending citizens united allowing them to consolidate even more power.

I'm ok with a corrupt democrat party because it's a corruption I know and understand, and one that can be changed from within. Obama was a shift to the left from Clinton, and Hillary was FORCED to do the same. Adopting 15 dollar min wage, free college tuition, and health care policies from Bernie.

voting for a progressive in the primary and being active in the democrat party is how you enact change, being a stubborn piece of shit with this holier than thou ""oh well the democrats r bad too"" attitude is what got trump elected and we know that for a fact.",Cmikhow,e8s62pz,SandersForPresident
Paid*,MrMineHeads,e8sjiej,SandersForPresident
"And your vote on a local issue is likely to carry much more weight anyway, since there’s so many less people voting.",teuast,e8t8o7x,SandersForPresident
That's what happens when you poll your friends and family instead of your voter base.,-Master-Builder-,e8sdiez,SandersForPresident
"Here is my anger toward that whole race and the fall out after.. The polls had Bernie winning by double digit numbers. ""Ah, but you can't use those numbers because he wasn't having the general election mud thrown at him"" .. except the same polls at the same time showed Hillary with a 3% lead, and at most 6-7%. Guess what she actually won by? 3%. Seems those polls had something right. So, yeah.. democrats were fucking stupid to put her up. I think they burned the bridges, but I also think the people who voted Bernie should have also voted Hillary.. but I get that it was hard to care too. Trump's ways will hopefully push those people to say ""Fuck this shit!"" and get their asses to the polls.

Personally, I think the dems are going to do quite well.. but just like in sports.. I wanna see the home team destroy the other team, not just win. So I feel pretty good being a part of that, and I don't understand why anyone would stand on the sidelines and not be a part of it.",GoldenFalcon,e8ss290,SandersForPresident
No they weren't. They showed Clinton winning the electoral college too. They were half correct in the most useless way possible.,MrMineHeads,e8sjn79,SandersForPresident
"I can't get on the NotMeUs slack, is there a way to get invited?",ICanGetLoudTooWTF,e8sl4gr,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, he's already talking about changing the constitution with executive orders (comical!). If he gets another 2 years to mess stuff up, he's going full on dictator and will rig stuff to the max. 

He'll also be able to shove at least 1 more supreme court down everyone's throat if the GOP keeps its majority. So unless people want coat hanger abortions, I suggest they go and vote ;)",Radeh,e8s6otb,SandersForPresident
He already thinks he can amend the Constitution by executive order.  So much for the oath he took to defend the Constitution.,marsglow,e8tivc1,SandersForPresident
"I mean, you say that, but you know that you can't predict the future. So even if you think you're certain, you're not. Anything can happen, and all I'm asking is for everyone to just show up and vote. ",Midnight_arpeggio,e8t64su,SandersForPresident
">It's not like the republicans aren't beyond using shady methods to stay in power either.

That's what I am more worried about.. People will be voting in record numbers for a midterm election, but the GOP will fuck with it as much as possible, and all these new voters will be like ""See.. it makes no difference!"" and never vote again.",GoldenFalcon,e8ssjyx,SandersForPresident
"I will be voting green for my senate race here in Missouri. I don't even care if the Republican wins; Claire McCaskill has got to go. She is a cancer in the party and whoever her opponent is will be terrible as well, no doubt, but I'll just think of him as the chemo therapy. There were 8 people on the dem primary ballot and only 1 actually tried a bit to win. Seemed very fishy to me. Not to mention the shit in the 2016 primary where she likened Sanders to a communist. ",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8suehd,SandersForPresident
"Also, winning by +.1% does not send a message. Wipe the floor with the opponent, and they will feel like their policies did not get traction in the wild and step away from the abyss of irrationality. This is the Overton window slamming down on their grubjy little fingers. Demoralizing opponents on election day causes strategy changes that make later primaries and electons to happen differently.",abolish_karma,e8rzkzs,SandersForPresident
"> That's why we have to fight hard on the primaries.

100% agreed.

>In the general a Democrat is still far superior to a Republican.

ummmm... That's a lot stronger then I'd give most of them credit for. Like Joe Manchin and his type might arguably be better but also possibly worse as they are dragging the democratic party righward with the support of Schumer and they are actively using the party apparatuses to push down progressives during the primaries...

And let's not forget that it was Clinton that deregulated the banks when no republican president could, Clinton that deregulated the telecoms industry to allow for monopolies when no republican could, Obama who defended the bankers and offered to cut social security, Obama who deported more folks than every president in history combined, and Obama who took us from 2 to 7 wars...

So at best the general democrat is mildly better and at least they can be pressured but let's not bullshit each other and pretend that the general democrat has learned from their major failings and losses over the past 12 years and that they are far superior. 

I mean Chuck Schumer just tweeted after three right wing terrorist attacks that both sides are the problem...",thesilverpig,e8rzmau,SandersForPresident
Lol,vanillathunder420,e8rzimq,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but the problem is if the democrats continue to support policies that increase wealth inequality and make lives harder for working families, then they are causing fascism.

edit: let's not forget that Chuck Schumer's response to the three right wing terror attacks recently was both sides are getting out of hand... so top dems are providing cover for right wing extremism. ",thesilverpig,e8s40pl,SandersForPresident
"> I think it's the opposite.

Well your entitled to your opinion but it's wrong. The democratic party kicking the unions out in the 70s and taking money from the bankers and owner class happened behind closed doors, not due to voter apathy. These helped accelerate voter apathy though. An incrementalism has only worked to increase our wealth divide over the last 40 years. Bold policy direction is really where the energy is at, and honestly I am surprised someone on S4P support failed strategies and tactics.",thesilverpig,e8s522t,SandersForPresident
"Have you ever considered, it's democrats who got us into this mess, rather than the voters? If the Democrats wanted those votes which keep staying home, then maybe THEY SHOULD change to appease them? Maybe learn how to be less corrupt?",duffmanhb,e8sn27d,SandersForPresident
"> it's people like you who got us into this mess.

Yup, let's ignore history and blame the people with no money or power.

",thesilverpig,e8s6ttg,SandersForPresident
Blaming and shaming voters....I’m sure that’s a winning strategy.  ,Theghostofjoehill,e8sr4h1,SandersForPresident
"It's actually a very simple solution. If a democrat candidate wants me to vote for them, they can run on Bernie's ideals. Simple as that!

If they don't want my vote, they can water it down with centrisism ""make healthcare more affordable"" (which means fuck-all) and playing-the-nonexisting-middle. They are doing this option a lot more than the first.",robotzor,e8ssv09,SandersForPresident
"> I'm ok with a corrupt democrat party because it's a corruption I know and understand, 

And that is the argument they use in most banana Republics, authocracies and failed states 

> that can be changed from within.

Really now. How well has it been working out so far?

I realize those are actually good arguments that Republicans have been using for their own party with some success. After all, they moved which moved from Rockefeller Republicanism, to tea party style to Trump style whateverism. Trouble is this works much better for Rightward movement than leftward, for obvious reasons 9actually only one reason - more money to be found on the right than on the left).

To which your reply would be - But, look at Corwin's Britain! 

To which my answer would be - but we don't have their parliamentary or party vote systems.

",Sandernista2,e8utzv4,SandersForPresident
"This idea that Bernie supporters didn’t vote for Hillary is just plain wrong. There were more Hillary-McCain voters in 2008 than Bernie supporters who voted for all other options *combined* in 2016.

I know you’re not blaming Bernie voters for where we are now, but too often I see that idea being trotted out to do exactly that, and it drives me up the damn wall.",teuast,e8t8kn1,SandersForPresident
actully stae polls showed movement to trump at end.wildcard apart from vote rid laws was hilary highe runfavorabilty than trump.,ChrisRobbins15,e8smh2u,SandersForPresident
"Yup: [Click Here](https://notmeus1.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtNDQ4Nzg0MTcxODEwLWI3ODJkNmU4MWI5MTBkZTZmMmE2OTUyOTVjOWRmYTgwYjNkNDc2MDc0MGRmZTk5NDhkNDlhZDAwYTRmZThmYTk)

Other excellent efforts to lean into (aside from rallying people you know) involve reaching out to your local candidates and offering your help. Endorsement lists are in the sidebar, their websites contact/volunteer pages are your best point of contact. Also if you can pick up some extra work and donate that'd do it too.   

If you'd like to phonebank and the Our Revolution dialer isn't working for you there's other systems listed in our sidebar as well.",Chartis,e8spgio,SandersForPresident
An oath from that guy is worth less than the air it takes to make the noise coming out of his mouth.,Antsy27,e8tq1kn,SandersForPresident
"That's very wishy washy. It is what I believe will happen, and though the recent Mega Millions proved my crystal ball to be shit, I am more certain in that than the opposite. That is what an educated opinion is...not certainty, just an evaluation. 

And I am urging everyone to vote as well as I want this to happen. Honestly, I think we would be better off if we suspended voting completely. Most people are too stupid to be trusted with it. ",Gringo1383,e8t91ik,SandersForPresident
"I'm glad you're morally ok with ""administering your own brand of chemo"" while people are getting shot in synagogues and pipe bombs are being sent to all over the place.",wscuraiii,e8sxyif,SandersForPresident
"The opponent won't change their policies because of how the public votes, they wouldn't risk losing money from their donors",mnewman19,e8s04s0,SandersForPresident
"Valid points, but none in the current democratic party have tried to repeal the Endangered Species Act, denied climate change, or approve the shrinking of national monuments/parks. Climate is my priority, democratic candidates are almost always better on it. ",Headinclouds100,e8rzpec,SandersForPresident
"Primaries are the time for idealism. Generals are the time for pragmatism. When primary season comes, vote for who you truly believe in. When the generals are around, vote for the candidate that will fuck you the least.",IcarusBen,e8shme5,SandersForPresident
"Defeatism. The self induced prophesy. ""Why do anything, nothing will get better"" and nothing gets better because we did nothing.",GoldenFalcon,e8ssqnu,SandersForPresident
"In my entire life, I've never seen a single Republican policy improve the lives of regular, working Americans. I just don't see the logic of helping them by default because establishment Democrats aren't doing enough.

I don't know how anyone coming from a liberal policy perspective sees any benefit in working against Democrats, in this cycle or any other.

Why wouldn't Progressives prefer to Primary for control of the majority party AND the White House in 2020? What's the calculation, that 2 more years of Trump Brand  Republican leadership will make people more enthusiastic about identity politics and deficit spending?",BERNthisMuthaDown,e8tlhee,SandersForPresident
"Can't have bold policy direction if you don't vote. Well, you can, but all the changes will be in the wrong direction",uberjim,e8s58do,SandersForPresident
"Obviously I accept this premise and agree. But you absolve the voters of any responsibility which is hilariously ignorant. Voters vote, they are ultimately in control of who wins.

You can’t absolve responsibility for voters who chose not to vote in a 2 party system.  Of course it’s not the voters fault that democrats are shit but abstaining to vote was a vote for Donald trump. Who is far far worse, especially when his opponent had adopted many of Bernie’s hallmark policy points, in some form or other.

 A lot of republicans didn’t like trump but they voted for him anyways, because they understood that abstaining for a vote for the other guy. It’s a sad reality but it’s the true whether you choose to acknowledge it or not 

Who voted Hillary into the primary? Voters.  Cry about superdelegates and DNC rigging all you want but Obama was up against the same, actually worse odds and stacking the deck and he won the primary. HRC was dominant throughout it. ",Cmikhow,e8ukt4x,SandersForPresident
"I’m not writing a thesis on the history of the world I was simply responding to your claim that Democrats are corrupt too and voting for them on principle is “sort of what got us into this mess”

You started the blame game and when I pointed out the flaw in your logic you’ve back pedalled and accused me of unfairly blaming in a brutal straw man. You’re side stepping my criticism of your point instead of recognising that your reasoning is far more harmful than “vote blue cause it’s the lesser of evils”",Cmikhow,e8s78xd,SandersForPresident
"Are we talking about a rape victim?

Voters control the democratic process with their vote. Abstaining to vote was a vote for Donald.

It’s a convenient straw man to act like I’m saying that it is 100% the voters fault, (I’m not) but to act like the voters are innocent bystanders in the election of Donald trump is fucking hilarious and has been par for the course in this sub since the primaries.",Cmikhow,e8ul1je,SandersForPresident
"Well then you will get a very simple outcome. Donald trump.

Which clearly you prefer and fail to recognise the damage he’s done. Liberals love to blast republican voters as dumb but in my experience liberals are just as bad and worse in many cases.

No politician has Bernie’s ideals and he still lost the primary, which should tell you a lot about how effective he would’ve been in a national election.",Cmikhow,e8ul4c2,SandersForPresident
">	And that is the argument they use in most banana Republics, authocracies and failed states

Examples? Or just rhetoric 

>	Really now. How well has it been working out so far?

Lots of good examples. Just look at HRC pivot to the left during the primary. Reject TPP, accept min wage increase, accept free college and expanding health care... among other things.

If voters engaged instead of just abstaining you’d see more change from within. Instead parties just wait for moderates to get tired of the other side and take power.

>	I realize those are actually good arguments that Republicans have been using for their own party with some success. After all, they moved which moved from Rockefeller Republicanism, to tea party style to Trump style whateverism. Trouble is this works much better for Rightward movement than leftward, for obvious reasons 9actually only one reason - more money to be found on the right than on the left).

I disagree with this. The difference is republicans will rally around their guy whoever they are.

The difference is they vote so republicans always pander to their base. The racists, the moderate republicans the tea party guys the evangelicals. The never Hillary movement was MUCH more effective than the never trump movement.

again on point 1, Hillary pivoted so much during the primaries and has admitted herself to it.

>	more money to be found on the right than on the left).

This isn’t actually true though.

https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/budgetandthebees.com/who-is-richer-democrats-or-republicans/amp/

Democrats are the party of the 1% not republicans.


I appreciate you engaging me though rather than some in here who just wanted to shout me down for voter shaming and refusing to engage in the circle jerk on this important topic.",Cmikhow,e8uun5g,SandersForPresident
Edit this comment... try again. I don't think anyone knows what you are trying to say.,GoldenFalcon,e8ss4dr,SandersForPresident
"That was the reason for the electoral college, you know.  That we couldn’t trust the masses of the people.  Why not give it at shot?  We certainly can’t do worse than the tangerine baboon.",marsglow,e8tj0nj,SandersForPresident
"So what would you have instead of voting? Because voting is basically the cornerstone of having elected representatives, rather than the people with the most money, status, and power taking the reins of the country. Well, right now it seems there is little difference. But if the entire voting system were to be abolished, there would zero hope to have representatives of the people, in charge. And we would see our government only ever working for those who could afford to pay it to work for them. ",Midnight_arpeggio,e8tji6p,SandersForPresident
"I am. I see no connection between my vote AGAINST the republican in my senate race and a crazy asshole shooting up a synagogue. You sound like the religious nuts who claimed that 9/11 happened because we let gay people marry. In my mind, as I read your comment, all I saw was Glenn Beck in front of a chalkboard connecting Mao and Obama with circles and lines. ",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8t709j,SandersForPresident
"It's not about convincing the opponent. It's about convincing those voting for them. Why do you think so much effort is expended on saying Bernie is ""too extreme"" to win? 

To convince people who might vote Bernie that he's ""unelectable"". Getting murdered at the polls is a key to forming a narrative of ""unelectability""",ChildOfComplexity,e8s0ctf,SandersForPresident
">Climate is my priority, democratic candidates are almost always better on it.

That is undeniable true. I have a lot of gripes with dems on climate such as Obama everything above energy policy opening up Alaska for oil exploration twice, or the really slow and lacking response to the DAPL situation. I also don't think the Paris agreement goes far enough and the US was a slowing force in those agreements... but ultimately you are right. Climate is such an existential threat that even if the dems do suck on it (which they do) the fact that they are better and at least opened to being pressured by public outcry is totally a legit reason go for lesser of two evils. Which sucks cause if we had more time I'd say we should just let the party implode like Labour in the UK so progressives could take over. ",thesilverpig,e8s0u7u,SandersForPresident
"I pragmatically voted third party in the general. It's all the other people, in my opinion, not voting pragmatically. It'd be easy for third party candidate to win, all they need is people to vote for them, rather than the self fulfilling ""they'll lose"" prophecy.",robotzor,e8ssnsv,SandersForPresident
"Do you even math, bro?  No box was checked next to Trump.  Hence,  by logical definition, *it cannot be a vote for Trump*.   Not picking lasagna for dinner is not a vote for spaghetti.   

You don’t get to tell me that my vote was some sort of vote for Trump.  It was a vote for the candidate of MY choice, or no vote for anyone.  

Earn my vote, give me something to vote FOR, or you will not receive it.  Or, keep pushing your basic logical fallacy, and watch your unacceptable candidate lose.   

BTW, HRC would have fully implemented the TPP and gotten us in a shooting war with Russia.   So your candidate not only gave me nothing to vote FOR, she would have ended America’s sovereignty and risked our sons and daughters again for more oil.   She was the worst choice.  

Last time I checked, the name of this sub is “Sanders for President”, not “Democrats for Sanders”.",Theghostofjoehill,e8ull8y,SandersForPresident
"That's voter shaming. Again. Which in 2016 we decided was a bad thing, but then changed our minds in the last 2 years (how time flies!) 

""Get in line"" will *never win back democratic seats. Ever.*

To a hard-left voter, damage will be done if another Trump or a neoliberal establishment candidate is in power, so this is the line in the sand. If the democrats truly want to win, it's very simple - follow the example set by the most popular politician in the country, and the votes will come. That they aren't embracing that fully sends me the message that maybe, just maybe... they don't truly want to win?",robotzor,e8ulbn6,SandersForPresident
"Allow me to translate:

""Actually, state polls showed movement to Trump at the end.  The wildcard, apart from voter ID laws, was that Hillary had higher unfavorability than Trump.""",j_from_cali,e8t7tvy,SandersForPresident
I would end democracy. There are various alternatives I would choose. ,Gringo1383,e8tklkw,SandersForPresident
"It makes me feel extra secure in my position that instead of actually demonstrating your (apparent) view that it's impossible for protest votes to effect election outcomes, and to therefore affect people's lives, you felt you had to go straight to ad hominem. You have to demonstrate that you're right, not just flail around trying to assassinate the character of a perfect stranger on the internet. If you're so sure of your views, demonstrate them. I don't matter. Attacking me is not the same thing as defending your position. 

My position is that your vote against the Republican was also a vote against the Democrat. We probably agree that the Democrats are mostly spineless neoliberal shills. But they're definitely not fascists. They support things we like, like comprehensive sex ed, expanding Obamacare, defense of marriage equality, believing in science, abolishing ICE, raising the minimum wage. The Republicans on the other hand, mostly are actual fascists in business attire. If you can make the case that protest votes cannot possibly, in any way imaginable, contribute at all to Republican majorities in government, then I'll go away forever and cry tears of actual shame for being so wrong about something that seemed so easy and simple. Further, if you can summon the cognitive dissonance necessary to make the argument that our President constantly dog whistling to racists and antisemites and filling the White House with anti-Semitic Nationalists like Steve Bannon, Mike Pence and Jeff Sessions has absolutely nothing at all, in any way to do with the correlating wave of right wing extremist violence in the US, I will be absolutely stunned.",wscuraiii,e8tzxkn,SandersForPresident
"That's... that's the exact opposite of pragmatic. When everybody else _isn't_ voting for a candidate, said candidate stops being a pragmatic choice.",IcarusBen,e8ssscy,SandersForPresident
">	Do you even math, bro? No box was checked next to Trump. Hence, by logical definition, it cannot be a vote for Trump. Not picking lasagna for dinner is not a vote for spaghetti.

Omg. The level of stupid here is incomprehensible. Your choice of dinner is not comparable to your family voting for spaghetti or lasagna. By abstaining you effectively bolster the side that wins by reducing the pool of potential voters.

Next you’ll tell me why voter suppression doesn’t help republicans because they don’t check a box. Sorry “bro” but you’re the one who needs to math.

>	You don’t get to tell me that my vote was some sort of vote for Trump. It was a vote for the candidate of MY choice, or no vote for anyone.

Wrong again. I absolutely do have the right on a public forum in a free country to explain reality to you. Whether you choose to accept reality or not is your choice. You’ve clearly chosen the denial and rejection route.

>	Earn my vote, give me something to vote FOR, or you will not receive it. Or, keep pushing your basic logical fallacy, and watch your unacceptable candidate lose.

And around in circles we go.

>	BTW, HRC would have fully implemented the TPP and gotten us in a shooting war with Russia. So your candidate not only gave me nothing to vote FOR, she would have ended America’s sovereignty and risked our sons and daughters again for more oil. She was the worst choice.

Back to my point about liberals being as dumb as republicans. HRC rejected TPP in the primaries and as far as shooting war with the Russians, you have zero evidence for that. And considering that Reagan didn’t even do this because of the nuclear deterrent it’s pretty blatant fear monger Inc to suggest in my opinion. She adopted Bernie’s policy on increasing min wage. She would have gotten more liberal SC judges than Trump. She ran on free college tuition not tearing education down like trump, expanding Obama care not tearing it down like Trump, Paris accord and other climate policy... saying she did “nothing” to earn your vote is just saying you’re ignorant. Saying she’s worse than trump is just stupidity.

>	Last time I checked, the name of this sub is “Sanders for President”, not “Democrats for Sanders”.

Ya last I checked it wasn’t liberals for trump. Last I checked I don’t support circle jerks, sorry that offends you so much. Nothing worse than when people have a different opinion than you amirite?",Cmikhow,e8umau0,SandersForPresident
">	That's voter shaming. Again. Which in 2016 we decided was a bad thing, but then changed our minds in the last 2 years (how time flies!)

Lmfao. Who is “we” I didn’t decide that and I certainly don’t agree with it. But sure handwave my argument away. I have been part of this sub since the beginning and I never supported abstaining from HRC. Clearly Bernie didn’t either, but oh how quickly we forget that!

>	""Get in line"" will never win back democratic seats. Ever.

Did I say get in line once? Straw man after straw man. Bernie also endorsed HRC. But I gues we just support him when it’s convenient for our bull shit world view.

>	To a hard-left voter, damage will be done if another Trump or a neoliberal establishment candidate is in power, so this is the line in the sand. If the democrats truly want to win, it's very simple - follow the example set by the most popular politician in the country, and the votes will come. That they aren't embracing that fully sends me the message that maybe, just maybe... they don't truly want to win?

The damage has been done. Look at the irreversible damage trump has done to the economy, to the middle class and poor, the smash and grab for the rich, the Supreme Court justices, the global fight against climate change. Democracy itself.

Your argument is reductive, “democrats do what we want or we’ll keep supporting trump and the republicans” is so fucking asinine.

Bernie lost the primaries, democrats rejected his platform for hillary. Maybe.. just maybe dems should be more willing to compromise for a unified vision of our goals rather than indignance which gets the polar opposite of our goals into power.",Cmikhow,e8ummvp,SandersForPresident
"Correct.  It’s a feature, not a bug.  The DNC is the Washington Generals, profiting by losing.  

Me, I’m glad we’re not in a Hillary-induced shooting war and having sold our sovereignty via the TPP.   ",Theghostofjoehill,e8ulrq5,SandersForPresident
Thank you. That is far more understandable.,GoldenFalcon,e8t93ya,SandersForPresident
"Without democracy, *you* wouldn't choose anything unless you were born into something akin to Nobility. But what would you choose instead, if you could? ",Midnight_arpeggio,e8tlay9,SandersForPresident
"The burden of proof is on you. I don't have to prove that my vote does not lead to mass murder. You have to prove that it does. You're also moving the goalposts. All of those people you mentioned would still be politically active even if Trump had lost the election; and those crazy people shooting up synogogues may have still done so without Trump (shootings at religious places is not a new Trump thing ). Who knows, the tipping point for that man who shot up that synagogue could have been a car with a star of David sticker cutting him off in traffic. How the fuck do you know? But no, it was my vote for a nonDemocrat here in the deep red state of Missouri that done did it. I should be ashamed of myself.in fact, I should just turn myself in to the cops in light of my responsibility for those dead Jews... ",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8uf3ag,SandersForPresident
"Sucks for everybody else, then. Of course, the (D) can run on progressives ideals too, in which case they will easily win my vote. Or, they can run on middle-of the road politics, and not win my vote. Nothing has changed with that regard since 2016, despite this pumping of blue no matter who. Am I just going to completely forget Bernie's message in only 2 short years? ",robotzor,e8st11i,SandersForPresident
"I’m not a liberal, I’m a left-libertarian/social democrat.   And as I said earlier, I did not vote FOR Trump.   No box checked for him.   

You’re entitled to your own opinion, but not your own mathematical theorems.  

Voters are not responsible for shit candidates being offered.   Does that seem clear?   We are responsible for making the selection that reflects our individual values.  I absolutely reject Hillary, but I do NOT blame or shame Hillary voters.  Their agency is their agency and I have no right to shame or blame them for exercising their agency, even if I fervently do not like their choice.  

But you keep on promoting that Streisand effect.   You’ve created more votes for Trump than any logistically fallacious math could ever turn my actual vote into.  
",Theghostofjoehill,e8umz78,SandersForPresident
"HRC rejected TPP and this shooting war nonsense is bullshit. No evidence for it, no evidence the dems would’ve supported it, and no historical precedent. It’s just fear mongering to comfort yourselves.

In 2018 you still think a Democrat win with HRC is worse than a Republican one with Trump shows you just have not been paying attention and you’ve happily feasted on the lies from the right as much as republicans voters have.",Cmikhow,e8umrr5,SandersForPresident
"You should. And if you voted for or encouraged others to vote for Jill Stein in 2016, you deserve further admonishment for the 12,000+ children you personally put in concentration camps by using the voting booth to stoke your ego instead of casting a vote that could likely have stopped that from happening. 

Interestingly, just as we were having this conversation, [this article](https://www.riverfronttimes.com/newsblog/2018/11/01/vote-for-claire-mccaskill-you-liberal-dipshits)  popped up in my feed. I think I can pretty reasonably let it stand as my rebuttal. ",wscuraiii,e8vwstd,SandersForPresident
"If I recall, Bernie _endorsed_ Clinton because he understood a moderate Democrat was always better than a Republican of any stripe.",IcarusBen,e8stntz,SandersForPresident
"Is that grape koolaid or fruit punch flavor you’ve got there?   I’ve been paying attention just fine, but to the LEFT, the actual left, not the more-right-than-Nixon brothel that is the DNC.  ",Theghostofjoehill,e8un5mr,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8vxcab,SandersForPresident
"It amazes me how similar it feels arguing with people like you as it does with republicans.

I present an argument and you return sensationalist rhetoric while not addressing anything I said.

Thank you for reminding me why the left keeps losing. The cancer of stupidity and groupthink is as pervasive on the left as it is on the right. The difference is they are smart enough to rally around their cause and not eat themselves up. ",Cmikhow,e8unz9f,SandersForPresident
What does voting against her get you? Or anybody?,wscuraiii,e8wb9mt,SandersForPresident
"Hi `GibtEsKeinenGott`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9stdac/-/e8vxcab/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e8ws4qt,SandersForPresident
"Sends a a tiny message to the dems. My dream would be for her to lose by the exact number of votes for the green party candidate. Might move the next dem nominee in Missouri to the left. The Senate is already a loss for dems anyways. They only really have a chance to take the house. Regardless, I am not canvassing, promoting GOTV efforts or trying to convince anyone to vote how I am going to vote, so I will just be 1 tiny voice among likely a bit over 1 million voters. Read: inconsequential",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8wblzu,SandersForPresident
"It's true, alone you have little power, but even if you're not canvassing your presence on the internet might be enough for some Missouri voters lurking on this sub - so I think that argument fails. And that blog actually did raise a lot of extremely valid points which you chose to ignore, instead again going for ad hominem attacks against the author. Are you saying your hope is that Hawley wins? You realize he is an actual monster, yes? And that your desire to ""send a tiny message to the Dems"" could literally ruin people's lives if you succeed? This is a man who absolutely hates gays, believes the separation of church and state should be repealed, thinks we had too many healthcare regulations BEFORE Obamacare, hates teachers, hates unions. Are you able to see that if you get what you want, you'll just be patting yourself on the back while millions of people in your state suffer? Are you able to differentiate between the primary, a great time for protest votes, and the actual election? This is the actual, real election of a voting member of the United States Senate. It's not just some throwaway opportunity for you to ""send a message to the Dems"". People's lives are literally at stake.",wscuraiii,e8ww6rs,SandersForPresident
"Everyone has a right to vote for anyone they want or to not vote at all. My first vote was in 2008 for Obama. Though, after his betrayal of the left with his increased wars, his right wing Healthcare plan and his wall street bailouts, I have voted Green for the national offices ever since. It wasn't until Sanders announced and I began canvassing for him in 2015 that I ever even considered voting for another ""Democrat"" in the general- I always vote in their primaries. So my vote is not one Claire ever would have had anyways and she has been drifting further and further right as this election is drawing to a close. Did you catch that Fox News interview a day or so ago when she mentioned Kavanaugh protestors, Sanders and Warren when talking about the ""crazies"" in the party? No thanks. She can go. I'll be here again and donating and canvassing for Bernie in 2020 though, but if another neoliberal like Corey Booker wins, I'll vote Green again. It is my right. ",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8x9iej,SandersForPresident
So she said a few mean things so we should replace her with a man who wants to outlaw abortion and take away poor people's health insurance? ,wscuraiii,e8xljfa,SandersForPresident
"I'm voting for who on that ballot represents my values most closely. Not my fault if it isn't her. I don't factor odds of winning into my vote and I don't have to. And she didn't just say ""a few mean things."" She has voted for and sponsored legislation that has led to the death of countless people across the world including here in the USA with her support of private insurance and for profit Healthcare. If everyone voted their conscience, perhaps we would not be in this mess, but I'll keep voting mine and hope that one day others will join me. And if not, so be it. ",GibtEsKeinenGott,e8xmbj1,SandersForPresident
"That's a lot of A&M's that could have been.  

Better all the bright farmers head to the cities, right?",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8ubuy3,SandersForPresident
"It's a great idea. Though most people who can [should vote early.](https://youtu.be/cJjx1YLq2Vs?t=315) Also, those marches were not large enough. [34 million](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/07/31/millennials-and-gen-xers-outvoted-boomers-and-older-generations-in-2016-election/) Millennials voted in 2016. And now some from 'Generation Z' are eligible voters. Everyone should fight for every idea that resonates in this regard, that way there's the best chance of several catching on. Hopefully some will entail a viral aspect of getting other people to vote, volunteering & donating, and making informed choices about policy (including ballot measures) & candidates. Try to vote in packs, bring out swathes from all age groups. I'd love to see some 'I voted' selfies with several generations. Maybe of youth with an older first time voter they engaged. Or perhaps a trifecta of a Democrat, independent, & Republican all voting against Trump & *for* worthwhile candidates like those endorsed in the sidebar.",Chartis,e8u3pwt,SandersForPresident
">""ideas that three years ago, five years ago, 10 years ago were seen to be radical and extreme — are now being adopted by cities and states and politicians all across this country."" -Bernie

>* $15 minimum wage
>* tuition-free public college
>* ""70% of the American people support a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program.""

>""He's the most popular politician in America... popularity is a strong currency that you can use to advance important goals."" -Bill McKibben

---  

>""He has not made a decision about whether he's going to run again, but he's well-positioned... There are a number of grassroots groups and individuals who would like to start some kind of a 'draft Bernie' to encourage him to run. I have an email inbox full of former staffers."" -Jeff Weaver  

>""I sure hope he does... He's got stamina and energy like no one I've ever seen. He's like the Energizer Bunny."" -Phil Fiermonte

>Sanders has been careful not to disclose his plans yet, for fear of distracting attention from what he calls ""the most important midterm election in the modern history of this country."" 

>""I'm not going to sit here and tell you that I may not run. I may... run all over the country to talk about the need for health care for all people, for raising the minimum wage to a living wage, to deal with the issues of climate change and a woman's right to choose."" -Bernie

>Vermonters... agree with Sanders. [Even among Republicans, Sanders was backed by 21%...](http://projects.vpr.net/vpr-vermont-pbs-poll) State-by-state polls conducted by Morning Consult have regularly shown that Sanders is more popular in Vermont than any other senator is in his or her home state.  

---  

>Sanders' newfound national prominence is an asset to the Vermont organizations and causes he has long championed. Those include the state's Federally Qualified Health Centers, which provide subsidized medical care to those who can't afford it.  

> * ""Having that national platform, Sen. Sanders has really brought to the forefront the sensibility, the critical access, the cost-effectiveness and the power of the work of FQHCs. And I very much appreciate that."" -Community Health Centers of Burlington CEO Alison Calderara.

> * ""He's been a champion of entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare and a strong protector of them and a believer in them."" -AARP Vermont state director Greg Marchildon  

> * ""It works sort of like a big farm, for example. If you're a good manager, you can make it work."" -Sheldon dairy farmer Bill Rowell arguing that the senator's field staffers have helped him keep his finger on the pulse.  

> * ""a tireless, relentless advocate and to be outspoken and serve as a voice of conscience."" -veteran political operative Bill Lofy

---

>Sanders has also leveraged his popularity to support like-minded candidates across the country. Soon after his appearance in Williston, the senator set off on a nine-state tour to campaign for congressional, gubernatorial and down-ballot Democrats from Wisconsin to Arizona. He announced this week that he would make additional trips to Maryland, Florida and New Hampshire before Election Day.

>Media accounts of Sanders' latest national tour described an enthusiasm that resembled the height of Sanders' 2016 campaign. ""He touched my hand,"" the Denver Post quoted one young woman saying at a University of Colorado rally. ""He touched my hand!""

>During Sanders' first stop in Indiana, video went viral of him leading an impromptu march of hundreds to a Bloomington polling place. 

>""Sen. Sanders gets us votes"" -Randy Bryce campaign manager David Keith

>Bryce, who has said that Sanders' 2016 campaign inspired him to run for Congress, has been a major beneficiary of the senator's support. The Vermonter has visited his district three times this year, most recently last week.

>To Alison Nihart, who chairs the board of the Vermont & New Hampshire-based advocacy group Rights & Democracy, the cross-country campaigning is evidence that Sanders is fulfilling his 2016 commitment to launch a ""political revolution"" of like-minded liberals.

>""I think he's utilized the momentum that he gained during his presidential bid to really walk the talk,"" she said. ""It's not about just one person, one personality. It's about a whole movement of people getting involved at the local level and pushing for policies that will benefit Americans."" ",Chartis,e8sglgf,SandersForPresident
">Sanders ticked through the list: a $15 minimum wage, tuition-free public college and the proposal that has animated him throughout his 28 years in Congress, universal health care. ""Last poll that I saw,"" he said, ""70 percent of the American people support a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program.""

And the sad part is, the only governor running in Ohio that checks these boxes is the Green candidate, and I will be given serious flack for voting for her.

It would be so much nicer if everyone would just vote for the candidate who best aligns with their values.",robotzor,e8sj15c,SandersForPresident
"Vote your conscience-""Hillary qouting Ted Cruz""",Butthole_Pucker217,e8smu92,SandersForPresident
"While at the same time rigging the primaries so she wins the DNC nomination.

""Vote your conscience, because I'm the nominee regardless""",-Master-Builder-,e8sunk6,SandersForPresident
"1. Abolish the electoral college
2. Pass a new Voting Rights Act
3. Ban gerrymandering
4. End the filibuster
5. Get ‘dark money’ out of politics
6. Introduce term limits for the Supreme Court
7. Grant statehood to Washington DC and Puerto Rico
8. Lower the voting age to 16",Chartis,e8uxl0l,SandersForPresident
I love you Bernie .,sparassis,e8ui8dr,SandersForPresident
"Please note that I am a liberal dipshit. I voted for Bernie Sanders, and I vote for the most liberal candidate in every local primary. But I would donate my kidney to cast a vote for Claire McCaskill. I live in New York, where we don't have competitive general elections for Senate. I wish I could vote for her. So if you live in Missouri, you have no reason not to vote for her.",poliscijunki,e8vkphi,SandersForPresident
"The messaging with that title is just so stupid. Insulting the people you're trying to reach puts them off listening to you, even if you have a valid point. For fucks sake.",Forestthetree,e8vpv86,SandersForPresident
"Is this serious man?

WTF?

What is with democrats and insulting people who are critical?

I have had numerous jobs in sales, including health insurance and if I said ""buy some fucking health insurance you loser dipshit moron because if you get sick you're screwed"" They'd have kicked me the fuck out of their room and rightfully so.

For myself I call myself a populist because I lean more right on some of these social issues. I'm pro life, support optional prayer in schools, and the right to own guns. I vote for Bernie and populist left wingers, including Abdul El-Sayed in my state, because I think getting money out of politics is the most important issue and providing healthcare for all and a green new deal is a close second.

I can't vote for McCaskill but I wanted to read this. If I were in Missouri I would've walked away thinking ""I'm voting for Josh Harley.""

Maybe I don't fit the mold of the ""liberal dipshit"" this article is aiming at but in all my years as a former republican, I never encountered this kind of ""insult your way to the top"" mentality that democrats have embraced. Republicans make the same types of arguments without the self-righteous in your face insults that are incredibly outraging to people and counter productive.

Imagine, for example, a super far lefty just out of college stuck in a dead end job living at home with 100k in student loans. ""Grow the fuck up, she's pro choice.""  If I were that lefty I think I'd vote against her just to tell the author to fuck off.

You know what real adults do? Talk to people without personally insulting them.

And I'm sure I'm gonna get downvoted to hell but I don't care. This kind of nonsense is exactly why so many people are turned off by politics and why our turnout is so low.",The_Popular_Populist,e8vnuw0,SandersForPresident
"Tweet from Bernie Sanders:  
**The wealth of the Walton family, the owners of Walmart, increased more than 9,000% since 1982. Walmart still doesn’t pay their workers a living wage. This is what a rigged economy is all about.** ",kazingaAML,e8t72at,SandersForPresident
"Wealth or worth? Those are two completely separate things.   
They frequently support raising the minimum wage which is a direct argument against the thought that they pay too little.   

A better argument for a ""rigged economy"" is that by fighting for higher minimum wage they are making it harder for smaller competition (drives up their costs). ",HarrisJB78,e8tiart,SandersForPresident
That’s fantastic news! Come on Stacey and Beto!!! ,Snuffaluffakuss,e8tglvm,SandersForPresident
"That's really encouraging, especially in Texas ",NickolaosDSA,e8tztes,SandersForPresident
I think I feel a new litmus test coming on... candidates must support at least a $500 billion military cut.,revolution2018,e8ts3a1,SandersForPresident
"100+ years of 'school house' education and we have a blinded populace, corrupt politics and are lead by Putin n friends.

What rebellion?  We are malnourished, brain-washed, dvd collectors, in debt and with few teeth.  No one is rebelling in this country, as YOU already know; we are too fat and like phones.

Focus on yourself with a financial audit, why don't ya?!  That'll save some American's taxes and then they will have less reason to revolt!  ",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8uemgr,SandersForPresident
">Income and wealth inequality remains the great moral, economic and political issue of our time. Over the past 36 years, the three richest families in America have seen their wealth increase by 6,000%, while the median household has seen its wealth go down by 3%. In other words, over the last three and a half decades there has been a massive redistribution of wealth from the middle class and working families to the richest people in America. That is what a rigged economy looks like.

>As Justice Louis Brandeis once said: “We must make our choice. We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we can't have both.” Our job: Demand that the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share of taxes and use the revenue to rebuild the disappearing middle class.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157421796412908)",Chartis,e8snob9,SandersForPresident
Such a disgrace on humanity.,BopTheDrass,e8voyyp,SandersForPresident
"Context: [The White-Supremacist Congressman](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/31/opinion/steve-king-white-supremacist-iowa.html)

>Steve King, the Republican congressman who represents the northwestern part of Iowa, is a white nationalist.  
>  
>King has said he doesn’t want Muslims working in Iowa meatpacking plants. He has lied about how much crime undocumented immigrants commit. He has said that Dreamers — undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as young children — have calves the size of cantaloupes.  
>  
>He has cultivated ties with European white supremacists. He has decried “cultural suicide by demographic transformation.” He said that “Leftists” consider “everyone who lacks melanin” to be racist. He has approvingly retweeted a woman who called interracial marriage worse than murder and who said the TV show “Seinfeld” taught her to dislike Jews.

",gideonvwainwright,e8tt0e6,SandersForPresident
"I want wins everywhere, but so badly for Gillum, Beto, Stacy Abrams, and Randy Bryce.",RanLearns,e8tf0qf,SandersForPresident
"Rally votes for Tim Canova too, he's tied with Debbie while the republican challenger is 20 points behind!",Zincoshine_2018,e8u3mta,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8szs8n,SandersForPresident
Already voted for Gillum.,Meadslosh,e8txf1u,SandersForPresident
What about Tim canova?,Zincoshine_2018,e8u3n8m,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/wayofthebern] [Don’t auto approve your judges! • from r\/SandersForPresident](https://www.reddit.com/r/WayOfTheBern/comments/9tb633/dont_auto_approve_your_judges_from/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8uwf6e,SandersForPresident
"Look everyone, someone is telling the truth.",candlemass63,e8svdqq,SandersForPresident
I wish more people would challenge these talking heads when they talk about how great the economy is. ,Sparkykc124,e8sz4ed,SandersForPresident
Let's not forget the amount of student and medical debt many people have as well. ,thinkB4WeSpeak,e8t0fqp,SandersForPresident
"[@billmckibben:](https://twitter.com/billmckibben/status/1057786019678949376)  

* Definitely the scariest story this Halloween--these numbers are very big and very unsettling.  

""carbon emissions from human activities must be reduced by 25% more than [previously estimated.](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)""",Chartis,e8ttupp,SandersForPresident
"The super wealthy fight for tax cuts for themselves, then lend money to the government and get paid interest.  It's time we stop that.

When we get control we should identify them and simply declare the debt paid in full, then raise their taxes.",revolution2018,e8tehr8,SandersForPresident
">Income and wealth inequality remains the great moral, economic and political issue of our time. Over the past 36 years, the three richest families in America have seen their wealth increase by 6,000 percent, while the median household has seen its wealth go down by three percent. In other words, over the last three and a half decades there has been a massive redistribution of wealth from the middle class and working families to the richest people in America. That is what a rigged economy looks like.

>As Justice Louis Brandeis once said: “We must make our choice. We may have democracy, or we may have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we can't have both.” Our job: Demand that the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share of taxes and use the revenue to rebuild the disappearing middle class.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157421796412908)",Chartis,e8sn27n,SandersForPresident
At the same time they gave raises to everyone they also took away a lot of bonus pay and stock options to make up for it. ,Ginger_Prime,e8tfftg,SandersForPresident
"The thing I don’t quite understand about that is that I can’t imagine that their bonuses were very much to begin with, and I’ve never heard of minimum wage workers with stock options. I’d really like to see someone do the math to figure out what the net gain actually is.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8ujtza,SandersForPresident
"Sanders is tweeting about keeping our eye on the ball here.  Health. Care.

&#x200B;

Not this or any other Trump puppeteering ""earned media"" for the love of **E pluribus unum**",RickHalkyon,e8qy8za,SandersForPresident
"My parents were/are both immigrants (mom died in the early 90s) who never pursued American citizenship. At the time I was born, they still held passports to their country of origin. They always had those passports.

I was born in Brooklyn 54 years ago. I grew up in the US. I attended school in the US. I have lived my entire life in the US. I don't even know how to speak the language used in the country from which my parents came. Their attitude toward that was ""He was born in America. He will live in America. They speak English in America.""

Hell, the country my parents come from doesn't recognize me as a citizen there. As far as they're concerned, I am an American citizen.

Are we saying that I should be a stateless person because of the xenophobia of people whose families immigrated a generation earlier than mine did?

And what about my children - all in their 20s, one of whom is serving in the US Navy. Are they citizens?

How about my granddaughter? Is she a citizen?

Fuck Trump in the ~~next~~ neck. And fuck his racist-ass xenophobic followers.

Obligatory Edit: Thank you for the gold, Kind Stranger. 

I cleaned up a couple of misspellings while I was at it - hope you don't mind. 

I also forgot to mention in the post that I am a veteran. I served in the US Air Force. 

But somehow I shouldn't be a citizen because my parents were not citizens? Yeah - fuck Trump.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8qlto6,SandersForPresident
">Ethnic cleansing does not happen overnight. It's a process of going after undocumented folks then asylum-seekers and refugees, the military ousting immigrants and now excuses to deport naturalized citizens.

>We can't afford to wait for the next group to be targeted. We waited long enough at our own peril.  

-[Justice Democrats](https://www.facebook.com/justicedemocrats/posts/484344218672990)",Chartis,e8qk521,SandersForPresident
I like how Ted Cruz thinks he's gonna be an exception to the rules.  Everyone should call ICE on him every day until he's deported if this happens.,Terrible_Inspection,e8qoww5,SandersForPresident
"He can EO all he wants, it doesn’t change the fact that it’d be in violation of the 14th amendment so his little EO would be DOA.",kni9ht,e8r3zvo,SandersForPresident
I don't think it's healthy for me to hate someone this much. I bet he's so fucking jealous of  Bolsonaro. Fascist piece of shit.,WizardyoureaHarry,e8runb3,SandersForPresident
"Most people never give a fuck about others, until they become the others.",OnionPunk,e8r79bi,SandersForPresident
"Flat out unconstitutional. If you want to change the 14th amendment do it the right way. If you can’t you don’t have the support to do it. It’s the same argument I use
About the 2nd amendment.  ",Intrepidxc,e8r5pp8,SandersForPresident
My dog’s turds are a better American than Trumpler.,HangTrumplers,e8rrtem,SandersForPresident
That is just strait up illegal. Presidential orders don't trump the constitution.,ihaveadogname,e8rfn2s,SandersForPresident
Most American's are better people than Trump will ever be.,Seroto9,e8qzjed,SandersForPresident
What about those who actually waited 5 years for their passport to cross and worked their ass off in a politically unstable country to make it here? My father was at the age of 16 when he left Mexico to pursue his dream of becoming a citizen. Night and day that Man worked his ass off to save up for his move. He was in line like everyone else to have a family of his own and establish a well earned job to provide not only his own future but my own as well. I'm not saying deportation is a good thing just consideration for those who actually did it the legal way. ,GenocidalWorm,e8rv5zy,SandersForPresident
Everyones opinion is correct. Your father is a better American that trump would ever be. ,PointlessCarnal2018,e8s6zx1,SandersForPresident
He literally can't do that. Executive orders can't undue Constitutional amendments ,the_bigZ,e8rkbeh,SandersForPresident
"Non-American here, how is this Unconstitutional?",Fearlessmelon,e8rkw5l,SandersForPresident
"The vast majority of illegals would. Infact, I believe, every human would make a better human than Trump. ",Fartingpenguinhole,e8rijyi,SandersForPresident
"Trumps wife Melania was not born here in the USA, is little Baron a candidate for deportation if he caught breaking the law? His wife number 3 Melania brought her parents to the United States and I understand Trump made them instant citizens, is that constitutional at all? Is it constitutional to let Trump just hand out citizenships to foreign born distant relative by marriages? I believe this unconditional and repugnant. Are his children really citizens? Mom was from Eastern Europe that was a communist state. Yes, I think all Trumps are worthy of citizens review. They must be deported!!!!",drinkingsodapop,e8rlh6h,SandersForPresident
Does this mean that legal non-citizen residents' children won't have citizenship? What the fuck?,Nimtiz,e8rscch,SandersForPresident
"So long as this policy isn't retroactive (no current citizen loses their citizenship), I fully support this. Removing this incentive for illegal immigration seems like it would cause more people to go through the process legally.",EsotericRefuse,e8r22rj,SandersForPresident
"I...actually am on the fence about this one. Doesnt this create a perverse incentive for people to come here illegally? I really dont know why it is advantageous to confer citizenship automatically to people born here on vacation or what have you.

I am a huge bernie supporter, but i do support border enforcement, and making the kids citizens immensely complicates deportation and other immigration issues. ",Teiresias666,e8qedsq,SandersForPresident
"Can confirm. Never met your father but he is, in fact, a WAY better American than our instigator in chief.",PeterCushingsTriad,e8r28tp,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8r33rr,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rk31b,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rlpwq,SandersForPresident
Aren't Trump's parents immigrants?,Flamingcheetopuff,e8ripny,SandersForPresident
"Does the man not realize that if he did do this (even though he can't), that would make the only legal citizens immigrants? Like dude, think 30 seconds ahead.",Evlwolf,e8rarti,SandersForPresident
I’m a guy who sometimes likes trump.  Here.  I don’t like this  this isn’t right and all the other trump guys I know don’t like this  hopefully this goes no where ,lonelyscrublord,e8rffh6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rgo27,SandersForPresident
Lmao imagine living in this country for ur entire life but not being a citizen. This idea is an absolute joke.,RoseL123,e8rdvoy,SandersForPresident
"Its unconstitutional and would immediately be ended as such

Or it would if the democrats weren’t being complicit in helping trump stuff the courts with right wing assholes",Kalysta,e8rs7ee,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8r8ceq,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8r458t,SandersForPresident
"Here, here! I'm looking forward to [Bernie's address tonight.](https://twitter.com/BenJealous/status/1056922219643834368) We'll be livestreaming it if possible.",Chartis,e8qydv7,SandersForPresident
That deleted comment from that throwawayracist dude was breathtaking in its inhumanity. My family's background is very similar.,Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8r5imd,SandersForPresident
"You raise an incredibly important point:

What are the statues of limitations? How far back does your lineage need to go to be considered non-American? How old do you have to be? Does it pertain only to individuals who are currently minors?

This is fucking absurd.",gigabytegary,e8sj9b7,SandersForPresident
This is about future children not current ones.,Kingpinrisk,e8ry5kz,SandersForPresident
I dont agree with trumps position.  But I will say that I've seen numerous numerous companies and businesses that will fly pregnant women in so they have their baby on u.s. soil and back home they go.  I dont have a answer for you but I also dont agree with these companies doing this either.,toadstyle,e8rajoq,SandersForPresident
Every major country on earth has similar rules regarding citizenship.,Allahtheprofitz,e8rl983,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8r40ft,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qy6uv,SandersForPresident
I’m Canadian and we don’t want him back!!!,ppross53,e8rjqfw,SandersForPresident
He should be first on the boat.,patb2015,e8ri9rs,SandersForPresident
"The SCOTUS would likely have to rule first on the language of the 14th and if it protects illegal immigrants or only legal. Then if they find the 14th protects all people standing on American soil, they would knock down the EO as unconstitutional. The SCOTUS we have now though, would likely find the 14th only protects naturalized citizens, and therefore the EO wouldn't be violating the 14th.",JRS0147,e8rr6h5,SandersForPresident
Read the 14th amendment.,Allahtheprofitz,e8rlgd4,SandersForPresident
"The person who doesnt pick up their dogs turds on the sidewalk outside of my kids elementary school is a better American than Trump. Not by a whole lot, but still",FesteringNeonDistrac,e8rts9w,SandersForPresident
Except when youre obama,just_a_tard,e8rgqz4,SandersForPresident
"The fourteenth amendment grants citizenship by place of birth, so if you’re born on any us soil, including a military base overseas, you’re an American.  I believe this was passed in order to give former slaves full citizenship.  ",Kalysta,e8rsm8k,SandersForPresident
"No, just illegal residents' children. His order won't do anything anyways, though, because an executive order can't trump the constitution.",Ligny,e8ryqei,SandersForPresident
"First you'd have to fix the process to do it legally. 

It is infuriating that people still think that all you have to do is pay a fee, apply and wait until you miraculously become a citizen. The whole process is ridiculous at this moment and unless you marry a US citizen or fit some other very special cases you're in for a very painful ride. The amount of restrictions USCIS impose for someone who is not a freaking Stephen Hawking on his field is absurd, and even then it would take from 8 to 10+ years to become a citizen. ",dafuqtyson,e8rinhk,SandersForPresident
"The problem with doing this is that the way the Constitution currently reads, the US, along with much of the Americas, grant citizenship by jus soli (by place of birth) versus jus sanguinis (by blood) as in Europe and the rest of the world. 

To do what you want, we would need a Constitutional Amendment. ",atomicxblue,e8rmo2m,SandersForPresident
"I think your wrong, Trump his in-laws instant citizens are they the exception to the laws he preaches regarding the poor The ugly, he doesn’t like fat or ugly people you know, I hope you and your are somewhat presentable.",drinkingsodapop,e8rn8b5,SandersForPresident
"Fortunately for all the innocent children born here, this dog whistle racist policy will never be implemented as it would require a constitutional amendment.",StopTheMineshaftGap,e8r3vmu,SandersForPresident
"Traditionally, any person who moved to America became an American. It wasn't about birthplace, or legal hoops, or exams. 

It was just a desire to be an American. The only reason the words ""illegal immigrant"" exists is because the [US decided in 1875](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Page_Act_of_1875) that it didn't want any more 'immoral' Asian women in the US. After that, we banned people from Africa, eastern Europe, etc, until only white northern europeans were allowed in any numbers. We even had a [system in place to maintain the ethnic dominance already in place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergency_Quota_Act). 

The system we have now is just the leftovers of patchword ""no Xs allowed"" after the civil rights act made it illegal to officially discriminate based on race or ethnicity.

In the end, people just want to be able to come to this country and become Americans the same way Americans' ancestors did.",alarbus,e8qx0v1,SandersForPresident
"Aside from America missing out on the [industrious benefits](https://youtu.be/HULcS7pKR3Q?t=10), the overwhelming majority of voters want to see comprehensive immigration reform and [a path towards citizenship.](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-poll-83-percent-support-pathway-to-citizenship-for-illegal-immigrants) But I'm way more concerned about those in power [ignoring the rule of law](https://www.theatlantic.com/amp/article/565655/). This proposed policy must be unequivocally stood up against. It's part of a [cowardly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUv8TPFl1Gc), [cruel](http://undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1), and [shameful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_Order_13769) [pattern](https://www.facebook.com/justicedemocrats/posts/484344218672990) of [ethnic cleansing](http://www.un.org/en/genocideprevention/ethnic-cleansing.html) on the part of [the Trump Administration](https://i.redd.it/i40olwdj51611.jpg). Being okay with this is a determent.",Chartis,e8qfjsi,SandersForPresident
"Trump made his wife’s parents instant citizens is that ok? I don’t think they speak English, and I think he flew them in on our dime since they didn’t have much rubles in their pockets",drinkingsodapop,e8rlxz0,SandersForPresident
"You know what creates a perverse incentive for people to come here illegally? Our shit immigration system, where for unskilled workers there often is ***no*** pathway to coming here legally. 

When my ancestors came here, they got on a boat, passed an infections disease exam and immediately obtained residency. There was no wait for 2 years or more to get a green card or to win a visa lottery. If you're a low skill worker, having a baby inside the united states, IS the pathway to citizen ship. If you don't like that, then you should support making it easier for people to immigrate without having to resort to that.",JuxtaTerrestrial,e8r4i1a,SandersForPresident
"Think of it outside of it's specific context, and as a matter of respecting governance. The precedent set by a president being able to potentially EO his way around constitutional amendments is perverse, and irreparably damaging to separation of powers.",GregEvangelista,e8r8b7x,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qi2l8,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",neurocentricx,e8r3rhn,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8rk8jj,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8roak1,SandersForPresident
"His first and third wife’s are immigrants, so are his children really here legally? Can his children be deported? If they break the law? What about his in-laws he brought here, he made them instant citizens!",drinkingsodapop,e8rm895,SandersForPresident
"I respect that, thanks.",Chartis,e8rg6ir,SandersForPresident
Because they're human. Because the rule of law is a boon to civilization. And because [I'm selfish.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ),Chartis,e8rgyas,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8r8kwb,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8r4tsf,SandersForPresident
[Bernie at a rally in Montgomery County: Let’s have the highest voter turnout in history across the nation and elect Ben Jealous to be Maryland's next governor!](https://www.facebook.com/benjealous/videos/553084105138621/),Chartis,e8rcw2u,SandersForPresident
"I missed it. It must have been posted and removed while I was cooking dinner. What was the gist of it? A general racist rant?

If so, it's hilarious that he would direct it at me. There's a reason that I didn't specify my parent's country of origin. I am of Nordic descent. The way the racist turds would look at things I am probably ""whiter"" than he is. My hair was blonde before it went gray. Blue eyes. Now that I'm old I could pass for Santa Claus if I let the hair and beard grow out.

I certainly wouldn't ask you to do a verbatim, but I am (understandably, I think) curious.  

Edit: NVM - someone clued me into ceddit. I looked at the post. 

Here's the fun part: I never specified that my parents entered the country illegally. The question posed is birthright citizenship. That says nothing about the immigration status of the people in question, merely that someone born here is a citizen. Ending that policy would effectively end it for all immigrants - legal or not. 

My parents have/had green cards. Not that it matters within the context of a conversation on birthright citizenship.

Far as I can tell he was just another hateful, inhuman, ugly person - likely a bigot. Good riddance.
",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8r9ew9,SandersForPresident
In what regard?,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8s2lne,SandersForPresident
"Not a big deal...

This is a big country.  The type of people who do this are the upper class of their country.",patb2015,e8ri8va,SandersForPresident
"All that means is that the kid will qualify for a US passport. Can't get Social Security if you didn't contribute. If they're living in another country - especially a European country - they'd have to be crazy to want to come here. 

I think alot of that is people trying to make sure that their kid has an escape hatch of sorts should things turn to shit where they actually live. 

I dunno. I'm a bit ambivalent about it. But still, every policy will have some people who abuse it - regardless of what that policy is. Every time there's a pile of cash there's a herd of scumbags trying to get to it.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8raxyn,SandersForPresident
"They also have national health care plans but I don't see any of the""deport them all crowd"" jumping on the Medicare for all bandwagon.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8s1z6z,SandersForPresident
Can Trump deport Melania and her parents and Baron if /when he gets tired of his in-laws even if he made them citizens?,drinkingsodapop,e8rmljx,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8r4zb3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8qyist,SandersForPresident
"Look, it's nothing personal. I like Canada, I like Canadians, except for Rafael Cruz. That guy can go fuck a stick.",FesteringNeonDistrac,e8rtofx,SandersForPresident
Okay. Now what?,dpenton,e8rmzxb,SandersForPresident
Why do you troll here?,thanatossassin,e8rwlwp,SandersForPresident
"I hate dog poop leavers, but at the least, they are taking care of the dog by exercising it. ",PM_ME_YOUR_WEIRD,e8s7y2f,SandersForPresident
uhhh... since when.,ihaveadogname,e8rldd0,SandersForPresident
"Trump made Melania parent instant citizens after he flew them here on air force one, about  1 or 2 months ago, does that upset you?",drinkingsodapop,e8rlqie,SandersForPresident
"I agree, the process is ridiculous. Perhaps it became ridiculous because enough immigrants were coming illegally, that if we took in the correct amount of legal immigrants with the illegal immigrants, we wouldn't be able to accommodate to that flux of population growth, particularly a population that needs additional support (ESL education, financial training, medical care, job training, subsidized housing, transportation, etc.)

That's a longer sentence than I wanted. Oops",rabidbuckle899,e8rn2dw,SandersForPresident
"Even when someone marries a US citizen, the process is painfully expensive and long. I sponsored my wife and step kids, and I ended up paying for the I-130s twice and waiting two years before my wife could legally work in the US. 
My Arabic instructor had to wait 3 years in Istanbul after he and his family fled Syria before they received permission to come to the US, and they landed in DC just two hours before the travel ban went into effect.
Yes the process is ridiculous, but for me, that makes it ever more irritating when when others come illegally or intentionally overstay their visas.  To me, they're like the ones who see a traffic jam and ride in the emergency lane up to the very front, then blow their horns and demand to be let back into traffic in front of those who have been waiting in line.
If this EO blocks the emergency lane, or turns people around when they get to the front, I can't help but feel that this is the right thing to do.",EsotericRefuse,e8s6s73,SandersForPresident
"If that's true, it is obvious and repugnant corruption, but it really has no bearing on whether or not granting citizenship to anyone who happens to be born here is a good idea.",Ligny,e8rz1dp,SandersForPresident
"I really think historical context is important, thank you for sharing. Earlier today I was thinking, ""well then how will there be ANY citizens?"" because most Americans are descended from immigrants.  But of course it's not about that, generation after generation, it's just about NEW immigrants somehow being a detriment to ""the melting pot"" as we used to call ourselves.",RickHalkyon,e8qygzk,SandersForPresident
"If this were ethnic cleansing, then naturalized citizens from south (or north) of the border would also be murdered en masse, which is not happening.  Also, the United States is not murdering illegal aliens en masse either.  Deporting, yes, but not trying to wipe them out.

",wendiigo,e8qg8bs,SandersForPresident
"I agree the trump administration has done many abhorrent things in the name of defending the border, and i also agree that defending the border is not this existential crisis that Republicans see it as...there are far greater concerns, and all this talk of caravans (god help us) is an absurd red herring...the very last thing we should be worried about right now. However, on this particular issue, I am still on the fence. I dont know why being born here needs to confer citizenship, i can see some pros and some cons. ",Teiresias666,e8qjpkx,SandersForPresident
"I do support a comprehensive reform of our immigration laws, and a pathway to citizenship for those who meet certain criteria.",Teiresias666,e8rsigz,SandersForPresident
That i wholeheartedly agree with,Teiresias666,e8rbudi,SandersForPresident
"That's why the supreme court exists

I would be against this action otherwise, but I'm completely fine with him challenging this and any other amendment as long as he doesn't have unchecked power. Which he doesn't.

The Constitution is old and many of the amendments are outdated and need clarification, at least. If Congress isnt going ti do anything about the various issues surrounding it I'm fine with the president doing so with executive orders.",captaindunbar,e8rfn9y,SandersForPresident
">All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. - 14th Amendment.

Odd, I don't see anything in there specifying the immigration status of the parents. Not a single word. Ending birthright citizenship would end citizenship for millions whose parents were here legally as well. 

Of course, it's a moot point because Trump cannot repeal the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States without going through the process (congress, ratification by X numbers of states). ",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8qn3js,SandersForPresident
"Isn't that basically pulling the ladder up behind oneself? I wonder how many generations most Americans need to trace their lineage to find what today would be termed an illegal immigrant ancestor. Personally I only know my family line extends for certain through birthright citizenship into the late 19th century.

The vast bulk of us trace our origins in the US to a time when immigration was little more than an at times perilous boat ride across the Atlantic. Yet here many people stand ready to say to everyone else, stay out unless you're willing to endure an arduous journey to visa and citizenship. Regular people have little idea how much must be endured to immigrate legally. 

Economic insecurity and the property system behind it is one root in the thinking that drives national division. Competition for survival and comfort among the masses makes us easy to divide up this way. I find it quite sad that as time passes and we institute increasingly strict immigration controls, Lady Liberty morphs into a symbol the nation no longer stands for. ",James_GAF,e8qu75c,SandersForPresident
">Ethnic cleansing does not happen overnight. It's a process of going after undocumented folks then asylum-seekers and refugees, the military ousting immigrants and now excuses to deport naturalized citizens.

>We can't afford to wait for the next group to be targeted. We waited long enough at our own peril.  

-[Justice Democrats](https://www.facebook.com/justicedemocrats/posts/484344218672990)",Chartis,e8qjl0v,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",neurocentricx,e8r3r9s,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8s2mhr,SandersForPresident
"If something is censored or deleted, there is a good chance that ceddit caught it. All you have to do is replace the R in reddit with a C.",Thengine,e8ra99y,SandersForPresident
You mean like Trumps in-laws that he flew over here on our dime and gave them instant citizenship too?,drinkingsodapop,e8rms24,SandersForPresident
"From what I know it basically is seen as a way of giving your kid the option to leave home for 1. An education and 2. Work, if s/he wants/needs it. 

Friends from Asia have talked about it mostly in the context of university options, while family and friends and Mexico seem to see it as a matter of convenience (dont gotta get the kid a tourist Visa) and they get the added benefit of being able to work here as an adult if they so choose. ",mikeysaid,e8rowwr,SandersForPresident
"If that is what happened then it'd upset me for sure. I can't tell for sure though if that was the case, since we don't have access to her parents immigration documents and timelines. Melania obtained her citizenship in 2006 so technically she could've petitioned for her parents to get them a green card and in 5 years (2012-2014?) they would be able to apply for citizenship. Considering they're getting this in 2018 it's still pretty reasonable. Obtaining a green card and later citizenship for your parents is not hard if you're a US citizen. ",dafuqtyson,e8rnjjt,SandersForPresident
"Syria doesn't share a border with the US, otherwise I'm pretty sure all those people waiting would have tried to cross it and ask for asylum. The majority of people trying to cross the border or overstaying their visa simply don't stand a chance of immigrating here legally, they're not marrying anyone; they're common folks just trying to give their family a decent life and escaping from shitty economies and violent places and they don't have the money and/or skills required by USCIS to apply. They're just pivoting into a completely new life and hoping for the best.

These people want to live and definitely want to work here; They work harder and they value the unity of this country more than our confederate friends in the south and that's my reason for supporting them. In no way having hardworking people in my country should ever be considered a negative point, that's how our ancestors built what we have today. They just need a chance to become regular citizens and pay their bills and taxes but our president prefer to treat them as criminals. ",dafuqtyson,e8ta8uj,SandersForPresident
"It's the ""I got mine, fuck you"" mentality that drives a lot of reactionary politics. Nativists somehow feel like their grandmother deserved to immigrate here but someone else doesn't if they haven't already. They deserve to be American because they were born here but we should take away other's ability to do the same.",alarbus,e8qz6ui,SandersForPresident
"That's genocide. Ethnic cleansing is more broadly defined, and this fits as part of the pattern shown. From the link:  

> rendering an area ethnically homogeneous by using force or intimidation to remove persons of given groups from the area.",Chartis,e8qgeoz,SandersForPresident
">All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.  

-Fourteenth Amendment  

This Administration is not trustworthy enough to deal with this issue, and this divisive tactic should not be rewarded with considerate attention.",Chartis,e8qk0z9,SandersForPresident
"Do you believe that you should have had to earn your citizenship somehow? If so, how?",TheChance,e8r1b3v,SandersForPresident
"Congress doing jack shit and completely abdicating it's responsibilities is the real problem, here. They work like 40 days per year so they can spend the rest of their time campaigning",Teiresias666,e8rsg4v,SandersForPresident
"Bet he will wait to see what happens after the election.  Then if enough Republicans take office he will go for it courts be damn. If I understand it right he feels that he owns the Supreme court and that they will back his orders. Best we can do is get out the vote and make sure the Democrats take the house or Senate best if both so we can have some semblance of balance in our government again. Because right now jack we can do about it. 
   I still think we should change that. You shouldn't be able to freely come here have a baby who then becomes a citizen then with that be allow to stay illegal. How do we fix that? ",Fredselfish,e8qrtt5,SandersForPresident
Understanding but still answer the question what does Canada do if you come to thier country illegally and then have a baby? ,Fredselfish,e8quj3q,SandersForPresident
"~~Page not found.~~

~~Thanks for the info, though! Might come in handy in the future!~~

NVM. I was being dumb. Rather than replace the r in Reddit.com, I replaced the r in /r/SandersForPresident. Once I did it right it came up.

thank you!",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8raruy,SandersForPresident
"When they come illegally, they become criminals. There are billions of poor hardworking people throughout the world, and I don't understand why the ones on this continent (or anyone who can get to this continent) should be entitled to special treatment. 
The US consumes 25% of the world's fuel and other resources with less than 220 million people.  We could double our population and still not make a dent in world poverty. 
If we really cared about the poor and weary of the world, I think we'd focus more on programs to help people succeed in their own countries, instead of waiting until they make it here.",EsotericRefuse,e8tm3mf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qj994,SandersForPresident
"Is Trump's goal in strengthening the border ethnic cleansing? Yes, i think you could make a pretty strong case for that. The man is a monster. But that doesnt mean strengthening the border always equates to ethnic cleansing. I celebrate our diversity here in America, but I also question the wisdom of automatic naturalization.",Teiresias666,e8qk0ui,SandersForPresident
"He isn't rendering anything ethnically homogeneous. He's deporting people based on their immigration status (or preventing immigration based on other reasons he came up with in his fever dreams). If he were deporting people based on ethnicity (ie ""Arabs should be deported""/""Croats should be shot"") then it would be ethnic cleansing. Anything up to that point is just his xenophobic views. 

I'm sorry if you think this is me defending him, but honestly it's just I hate seeing people comparing legal deportations with these crimes.

This isn't the road to becoming Yugoslavia 2.0

Edit: formatting",KnutrHalverson,e8rolgh,SandersForPresident
"Is the argument being made that it is unconstitutional and therefore wrong, or that it is unconstitutional and whether it's right or wrong is irrelevant?

I don't think birthright citizenship should apply to anyone who isn't in the US as a resident, temporary or permanent. Whether that would extend to current illegal immigrants or not is to be debated, but imo, someone who isn't even living in the US shouldn't have citizenship granted to their children just because they decided to """"""coincidentally"""""" travel here for the 2 weeks birth was most likely to happen, before then going back to their country for 20 or so years, just so that the child can skip ahead of everyone else waiting to immigrate, should they ever want/need to.

Regardless, it should never be retroactively removed.",Okymyo,e8qxvbb,SandersForPresident
"No country in the world that I'm aware of makes its citizens put their children through some sort of test before granting citizenship. Most countries in the world have fairly tough rules on foreigners gaining citizenship. That alone proves that your comparison Is unfair,  imo.",Teiresias666,e8rsnpu,SandersForPresident
">You shouldn't be able to freely come here have a baby who then becomes a citizen then with that be allow to stay illegal. How do we fix that? 

The way I see it is if that is what you believe you have three choices.

1. Deport American citizens. 

2. Rip American citizens from the arms of their parents, ship their parents off to whatever their country of origin is, and chuck those kids into the nightmare of foster care. 

3. Immigration reform.

Guess which choice most reasonable people would make.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8qsl8y,SandersForPresident
"There's a good story here:  

>[Princess Margriet of the Netherlands:](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princess_Margriet_of_the_Netherlands) The Dutch family had been living in Canada since June 1940 after the occupation of the Netherlands by Nazi Germany. The maternity ward of Ottawa Civic Hospital in which Princess Margriet was born was temporarily declared to be extraterritorial by the Canadian government. Making the maternity ward outside of the Canadian domain caused it to be unaffiliated with any jurisdiction and technically international territory. This was done to ensure that the newborn would derive her citizenship from her mother only, thus making her solely Dutch


But if you're looking for answers and don't want to put the effort into researching it, this article goes into modern nuances:  

>[Birth tourism is legal](https://www.macleans.ca/society/health/why-women-are-coming-to-canada-just-to-give-birth/)  
",Chartis,e8qv4u2,SandersForPresident
"I not sure what that sentence means or how it pertains to my post. Not Canadian, haven't talked about Canada. Other nations actions aren't relevant to my sense of justice or morality.

I frankly find our own citizenship and immigration policies restrictive as a citizen. Nationalism basically makes me property of the state to which I'm a citizen. Can't really leave unless someone else will take you in because we've all setup these restrictions to keep other people out. 

Most of the time the rules of admittance are setup to allow people in only if they're either a tourist, a student, rich or may be exploited for labor/taxes. The global poor under a system of nations are fundamentally little different than serfs owned by a nation state rather than a lord. It's all a little mental to me at the basic level, though economics of capitalism and xenophobia I think drive popular support for restrictions.",James_GAF,e8qvmie,SandersForPresident
"I don't know and I don't care. This is the United States, not Canada. I am not a citizen of Canada, cannot vote in Canada, and I am entirely unaffected by Canadian policy. Why should I care about what Canada does with regard to immigration policy?",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8ra0au,SandersForPresident
TIL about ceddit as well. Thanks for the tip!,Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8rilbe,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8qjdfo,SandersForPresident
"Birthright citizenship is not ""automatic naturalization."" You're ascribing alienness to a newborn infant who ""immigrated"" as a fetus.",TheChance,e8r17nb,SandersForPresident
"When placed in pattern with the Muslim Ban, child separation, and other other racist policies it certainly is. I question the wisdom of some provisions of the Constitution such as the right to bear arms (especially since the 'well regulated' phrase [edit] *doesn't get as much attention). But the need to focus on Trump's willful disregard of the rule of law supersedes the minutia of those debates. Comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship are desperately needed and rallying folks to vote over the next week are prime in that regard. Activism links are in the sidebar --> ",Chartis,e8qkhth,SandersForPresident
">* Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States 

>* they would say, “Are you Muslim?”

>* Islam hates us. There is something – there is something there that is a tremendous hatred there. There’s a tremendous hatred.  

>*  When I am elected, I will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of terrorism  

>* or certain people coming from certain horrible—where you have tremendous terrorism in the world. You know what those places are.  

>* Call it whatever you want, change territories, but there are territories and terror states and terror nations that we’re not gonna allow the people to come into our country. 

>* I think my position’s gotten bigger now. I’m talking about territories now. People don’t want me to say Muslim.   

>* The Muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed 

>* We are going to areas like Syria.  

>* You know my plans all along",Chartis,e8rq799,SandersForPresident
"The argument is being made that the President is enacting a campaign of ethnic cleansing, and this is a divisive part of his opposition to the rule of law.  

[@SenSanders:](https://mobile.twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1057314212488331266)

* “The president cannot erase the Constitution with an executive order... This is a transparent and blatantly unconstitutional attempt to sow division and fan the flames of anti-immigrant hatred in the days ahead of the midterms.” -[Omar C. Jadwat](https://twitter.com/OmarJadwat), ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project   

>To the degree that he pursues racist, sexist, xenophobic and anti-environment policies, we will vigorously oppose him.  

-[Senator Bernie Sanders](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-trump)",Chartis,e8qy760,SandersForPresident
"Didn't answer my question did you. What reform can we make to fix this issue? 
   1. Change the law and then they no longer become American citizens 
2. Deport both 
3. Our just pave a way for citizenship.  (Which will come with a host of problems) 
   4 ?
    You tell me how do we fix the problem? Catch is that everyone can get behind?
   Keep in mind no other country has this issue.  How does Canada deal with illegal immigrants?",Fredselfish,e8qt626,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qvsbo,SandersForPresident
"It's relevant because they hope that, by flipping the tables, they'll be able to get us to ""concede"" that we shouldn't be able to create Canadian citizens by giving birth to Americans on Canadian soil.

They assume it'll work because they reckon we'll come around to the idea that birth tourism constitutes some kind of hostile invasion, if only we think about ourselves as the hostile invaders.",TheChance,e8r1kn7,SandersForPresident
"I'm not ascribing ""alienness,"" I'm pointing out that the mother is not a citizen, and as such has the potential to be deported in certain circumstances, according to our laws. Creating a situation where the mother can be deported but the 2yr old cannot is just asking for no-win scenarios

Although, many people here seem opposed to the idea of borders and citizenship at all, and want a radically open system. ",Teiresias666,e8rsyia,SandersForPresident
"I agree with everything you said above. We disagree on a few small details, but the big picture is so much more important, especially now. I already voted weeks ago, I am with you 99% of the way :)",Teiresias666,e8rc709,SandersForPresident
"....Yes. He doesn't care much for a religion and has plans to launch military actions in unstable countries. He's an imbecile, but that isn't A- Calling for the extermination/exile of a specific ethnic group in the aim of ethnic homogeneity 

Or 

B- anything other than an immigration block. Like I said, yeah, it's not entirely good by my morals. It's not ethnic cleansing to say people of certain ideologies can't immigrate. (Plus, he didn't even specify Islamic, he banned immigration from specific nations. Nations which are -no matter what your political views- ridden with terrorists.

This still isn't any form of ethnic cleansing",KnutrHalverson,e8rqqe2,SandersForPresident
"I think that doesn't respond to my comment at all, was that a reply to the wrong one or something?",Okymyo,e8qzg8s,SandersForPresident
I favor immigration reform & a path to citizenship. the alternatives are too horrible to contemplate.,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8qtny2,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8qw0gi,SandersForPresident
"Only if you can't handle nuance. Open immigration, open borders, the abolition of customs, and the abolition of borders are four different concepts.

I'm for two of them.",TheChance,e8rtthf,SandersForPresident
: ),Chartis,e8rcb1h,SandersForPresident
">he didn't even specify Islamic  

Yes he did specify Muslims on multiple occasions as those quotes point out.  

It wasn't a legal deportation that he was calling for, which is why he had to change it. Same as this call to use an executive order to remove the 14^th amendment. Along with his other racist policies, such as removing children from their parents only at the Mexican border, deploying troops along the Mexican border, attempting to build a wall along the Mexican border, calling Mexicans rapists, etc. Such as the rates of incarceration of ethnic minorities and more:  

>American Indians and Alaska Natives face almost a 50% higher death rate than do non-Hispanic White people, due to illnesses such as heart disease, cancer, chronic liver disease and diabetes. Poverty, unemployment, social exclusion and loss of cultural identity also have significant mental health ramifications and often lead to a higher prevalence of substance  abuse, domestic violence and alarmingly high suicide rates in indigenous communities, particularly among young people. Suicide is the second leading cause of death among American  Indians  and Alaska Natives  aged between 10 and 34... the [persistence of extreme poverty is a political choice made by those in power
](http://www.undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1)  

These illegal, racist, and forceful policies constitute a campaign of willful ethnic cleansing.",Chartis,e8rreec,SandersForPresident
I wouldn't call deporting them a horrible act but I accept path the citizenship solution. So how will this work? What's the process?,Fredselfish,e8qumxf,SandersForPresident
"Im guessing you support open immigration and open borders. I dont support any of the four things you listed. I have no problem accepting nuance, although it is often difficult to navigate through text on an online forum.",Teiresias666,e8ru2la,SandersForPresident
">I wouldn't call deporting them a horrible act 

I would, seeing as far too often the reason their parents fled their home countries have roots in US policy. Look at Honduras. 

>So how will this work? What's the process?

I dunno. I'm not Solomon. I figure that's why we elect folks - so they can figure it out. Which is one reason I won't vote for any Republican at the moment. They're worshipping at the Trump alter - and Trump is a racist prick.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8quyat,SandersForPresident
"Fair enough, I suppose, except that hardly anyone (here or anywhere) is for the other two.

It boils down to two things: first, this nation welcomed all of *our* ancestors, and I don't reckon the standards should be any different just because my ancestors came here first. Second, the whole thing seems to come back to illegal immigration. This problem is artificial. Open immigration, and suddenly everyone is documented and everyone has the protection of law, and nobody is losing their job to people who will work for less because nobody *can* work for less. And anybody who is still here without papers, when everyone is allowed to come who passes the background check, you know right away that anyone without papers is up to some shit.",TheChance,e8rwroj,SandersForPresident
I agree with you on not voting for any Republicans.,Fredselfish,e8qvkxk,SandersForPresident
"I dont necessarily disagree with you, but I am very skeptical that it is that simple. Pretending that our country is in the same position now as it was in 1776 is completely unjustified. Id have to think about and research the problem a lot more, but my initial impression is that you are probably ignoring a lot of mitigating factors that make open immigration less desirable. 

Consider for example the welfare and social safety nets we provide today. These things are very expensive, and already overburdened. Migrants tend to be poor, and looking for a better future away from home. They would make use of our social safety nets, which are already strained to the breaking point in some cases. This is a problem that did not exist in 1776, when the federal government was scarcely more than a formality.",Teiresias666,e8rz9zj,SandersForPresident
How predictable.,lovely_sombrero,e8thlhq,SandersForPresident
Where did this target originate from?,Chartis,e8sk07z,SandersForPresident
Not really. ,itsabobloblawlawbomb,e8td1ky,SandersForPresident
"Historically, Trump is not anywhere close to some of our previous presidents but in the context of modern presidential politics, it's a fair characterization. ",SLowfalls,e8tdzmj,SandersForPresident
"I think you have to evaluate people in the context of their day. One could argue that supporting slavery when it has been the norm for centuries isn’t as bad as demonizing people of color in a time where society has accepted that all people are equal regardless of race, religion, or nationality. It’s an odd argument, but it kinda makes sense. It’s less of an evaluation of how racist they are and more an evaluation of how much more racist they are than the average person.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8ukd4l,SandersForPresident
Legal,lnclincoln,e8r8jh6,SandersForPresident
I'd be fine with going back to this immigration policy if we also went back to this welfare policy,BloodfortheBloodDude,e8sb18k,SandersForPresident
Each and every legal one of them!,CrackaJacka420,e8rwl49,SandersForPresident
"You are 1 of 3 things in the US. 

A child of a native (indigenous), a child of a slave, or a child of an immigrant.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8r5zds,SandersForPresident
"[@SenSanders:](https://mobile.twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1057314212488331266)

* “The president cannot erase the Constitution with an executive order... This is a transparent and blatantly unconstitutional attempt to sow division and fan the flames of anti-immigrant hatred in the days ahead of the midterms.” 
 
 -[Omar C. Jadwat](https://twitter.com/OmarJadwat), ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project  

>All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.  

-Fourteenth Amendment 

>Ethnic cleansing does not happen overnight. It's a process of going after undocumented folks then asylum-seekers and refugees, the military ousting immigrants and now excuses to deport naturalized citizens.

>We can't afford to wait for the next group to be targeted. We waited long enough at our own peril.  

-[Justice Democrats](https://www.facebook.com/justicedemocrats/posts/484344218672990)",Chartis,e8qvw75,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8r85p0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rsg2y,SandersForPresident
photo cred?,darmon,e8rx1wf,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/shitpoliticssays] [""Americans are Immigrants. Immigrants are Americans."" Bernie fans are in favor of complely open borders.](https://www.reddit.com/r/ShitPoliticsSays/comments/9swaxm/americans_are_immigrants_immigrants_are_americans/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8rxirr,SandersForPresident
"Let's also remember that immigration is good and necessary for this country to continue to prosper: we are facing demographic crunch at just barely above replacement birthrate.

""Illegal"" immigrants contribute $2bn PER YEAR to the Social Security Trust, that they will never collect. If those folks are deported en masse, how will R's make up that shortfall? Likely by cutting benefits and not by raising the FICO contribution cap.

Notwithstanding the financial support immigrants provide to our elders, there is also the sheer fact that we need more people in order to make sure our elderly parents' diapers get changed.

Then there is the fact that immigrants are far more entrepreneurial than native-borns, regardless of what country we're talking about.",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8rtc7o,SandersForPresident
Try getting them to admit it...,Had2msh2drnk,e8rutw4,SandersForPresident
"I stand with immigrants.

My family fled to America from Ireland. 

If you accepted us we must accept you.

I do so gladly.",xxoites,e8rxqva,SandersForPresident
"I'mma leave this right here, where Bernie tells you what he thinks of your proposal.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vf-k6qOfXz0",EndTimesRadio,e8sqrn1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rr0w6,SandersForPresident
Just like all children born in the good ol' US-of-A. Americans.,Chartis,e8rbuer,SandersForPresident
"Legal what?

Legal Immigrants? Have you gone through Immigration? Do you know what it takes to ""legally"" enter the US? Thousands of dollars, sponsors, background checks, police reports, 100+ pages of evidence, months of waiting. The vast majority of people trying to get into the US don't have access to those resources or the money to afford the costs. I know, my wife is a Green Card holder.

It's also a major misconception for a huge section of the US that people ""legally"" immigrated and I specifically mean White folks. So far as I know immigration law didn't exist for the first 100 years of the US' existence. Up until the late 1800's there was no ""illegal"" immigration. You showed up, then through the paces, and could become a citizen. Not until the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 did we place restrictions on immigration and its important to acknowledge that because the establishment of immigration policy was fueled by nativism and racism then just the same as now.

Not to mention that the same folks that rail against ""illegals"" and even the fence sitters fail to understand  the establishment of immigration laws was a racist means by which to keep ""others"" aka the Chinese (because they are non-whites) from being able to leverage any of the social institutions available to our citizens. Capitalists turned US workers against immigrants all the while taking advantage of the immigrants cheap labor. Immigrants became the scapegoat for poor working conditions and wages rather than acknowledging that it was in fact the Capitalist bosses that were responsible and were simply blaming immigrants because it sowed division in the work force and would prevent folks from banding together to take on their bosses.

Immigration Law in the US was established as a tool for White Supremacy so listening to people cry about ""illegal"" immigration is disingenuous and ignorant of our history, or maybe they are just truly hateful people that like to blame others for their own ability to rise to the occasion. My money is on the later of the two.

IMO those that rail against immigrants and tout immigration law as some tool for good also tend to be the same people that cant accept responsibility for the way their lives have gone. More often than not I find it to be White Men in particular that are extremely hostile toward immigrants, which is interesting seeing as how being a White Man in the US is basically playing life on easy mode. So what happens when the super entitled person doesnt get everything they think they deserve or are ""owed""...they blame immigrants, they blame poor people, they blame black and brown folks.
",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8stjh7,SandersForPresident
A child or a child of a child or a child of a child of a child and it goes on,fguerouate,e8rcbsx,SandersForPresident
"Could you not say this of every country on Earth except maybe parts of Africa? I mean if you go back far enough we all started near Olduvai Gorge somewhere, right? Just because America is a young country we can't have borders? 

I agree we should welcome legal immigrants and refugees, and reform the immigration process,and provide a path to citizenship for qualifying undocumented individuals...but that doesnt mean we cant differentiate between citizens and noncitizens.

That being said, I am glad a strong backlash against Trump's hateful fearmingering is brewing....i just hope we can still hold nuanced positions without being seen as unprogressive",Teiresias666,e8rtjzq,SandersForPresident
"That’s not true?

My parents didn’t immigrate here. They were born here. I’m a child of US citizens.",sirjaimes,e8sggy2,SandersForPresident
"Just on more thing.

I am your sibling.",xxoites,e8rxt40,SandersForPresident
"[Bernie Sanders explodes a right-wing myth: ‘Open borders? No, that’s a Koch brothers proposal'](https://www.rawstory.com/2015/07/bernie-sanders-explodes-a-right-wing-myth-open-borders-no-thats-a-koch-brothers-proposal/)",Chartis,e8rb748,SandersForPresident
What do you think open borders means?,helpmydickisbleeding,e8r9dqm,SandersForPresident
"Hi `toucansalmon`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9sqv48/-/e8r85p0/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

This is being removed because all submissions should relate to progressive policies which Bernie Sanders has regularly promoted and discussed or progressive candidates endorsed by Bernie Sanders, Our Revolution, Justice Democrats, National Nurses United or Brand New Congress. Submissions which do not provide enough context, content, or direction for discussion may be removed. Consider creating a self-post with context and links to explain the relevancy to Bernie and his movement. Memes, image macros, screenshots should be high quality or may be removed at moderator discretion. Unreliable news sources will be filtered by automoderator. (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e8rs723,SandersForPresident
"Hi `-Master-Builder-`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9sqv48/-/e8rsg2y/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e8rszzg,SandersForPresident
"Redditors: You are free to disagree with opinions but you should feel shame in disputing factual information. If you want to ask for evidence, go ahead, but downvoting (disputing) facts without even asking for evidence is display of your intellectual poverty. 

If you don't think you're an ignoramus, don't act like one.

PS Here's some articles detailing some of what I'm talking about:  https://www.thetrumpet.com/16131-americas-demographic-crisis

https://www.barrons.com/articles/the-great-labor-crunch-1520655014

[""immigrants continue to be almost twice as likely as the native-born to become entrepreneurs. Immigrant entrepreneurs also launched 28.5 percent of new businesses in 2014, helping to fuel an uptick in new business creation nationally. That statistic is up from 25.9 percent in 2013 and 13.3 percent in 1996.""](http://www.kauffman.org/~/media/kauffman_org/research%20reports%20and%20covers/2015/05/kauffman_index_startup_activity_national_trends_2015.pdf)",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8sr747,SandersForPresident
[America's undocumented residents contributed $57.3b via tax returns in 2013](https://youtu.be/HULcS7pKR3Q?t=11),Chartis,e8rtvif,SandersForPresident
The virtue signaling is strong with this one,CliffHutch,e8v6g5c,SandersForPresident
"Hi `flickerkuu`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9sqv48/-/e8rr0w6/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e8rs4bd,SandersForPresident
"Yet we accept more legal immigrants than any other country... Funny how that works. 

Only in America do we have people like you foaming at the mouth because we have borders and can't accept everybody, especially the people who can't follow the most basic rule of becoming a resident, don't come or stay in the country illegally.",AgentFN2187,e8t0hzs,SandersForPresident
">...do you know what it takes? ...I know, my wife is a green card holder... 

Are. You. Serious.  
How could you have gone through all that bullshit and still think it is acceptable to not enforce it for others?   

I also know. My wife is also a green card holder. ",HarrisJB78,e8timxw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8sud91,SandersForPresident
"Well, I really don’t think that children should be having children... and as far as children’s children’s children, I just think, where does it stop? You’re getting into this whole Russian doll situation ",helpmydickisbleeding,e8sdci4,SandersForPresident
Nice appeal to absurdism. ,ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tjb4h,SandersForPresident
"I don't believe in borders.

They are artificial.

People are real.

The planet is real.

Your constructs are imaginary.",xxoites,e8rxvmz,SandersForPresident
Troll or too dense to understand the meaning....I'll let you pick your costume for the day.,ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8sllxe,SandersForPresident
A grandchild is a type of child. A great-grandchild is a type of child. A great-great-grandchild is a type of child. All of us humans are connected.,Chartis,e8sodvt,SandersForPresident
Free flow of people across borders?,toucansalmon,e8raxlh,SandersForPresident
"Questioning Sanders policy doesn’t contribute to discussion? Edit: just to be clear, I disagreed with toucansalmon’s implication, but all they did was ask a question, and I do not see how that broke the rules you are citing.",helpmydickisbleeding,e8sdyr2,SandersForPresident
"How was my comment ""trolling"" or ""hostile""? I supported Sanders and still do. But am I not allowed to voice a conflicting opinion here? How does that make this sub any better than far right wing subs?",-Master-Builder-,e8ruc1q,SandersForPresident
"Awesome. The only number I could confirm was SS contributions, thanks for filling in the complete tax picture.",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8sr9ml,SandersForPresident
"> Only in America do we have people like you foaming at the mouth because we have borders 

2 things wrong with this. Plenty of folks outside the US feel the same as I do so your statement of exclusivity is false. 

Secondly, I have no issue with boarders so for you to try and reframe my position as one that advocates for a lack of boarders is incorrect and misguided.

Lastly, you bet your ass if you came from a nation in the ""developing"" world you would probably overstay your visa too. Because it is worth the risk of deportation to live somewhere where you can at least get access to basic work and services rather than returning to a war zone, cartel violence, or government oppression. I'd suspect many here would sing a different tune if they were from a war torn or highly impoverished nation. But its easier to complain and blame immigrants for long existing issues rather than to look introspectively to identify the cancers plaguing our nation.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8t1c7e,SandersForPresident
"Because I know the vast majority of people trying to join the US are unable to do what we did. That's why. We went through it, the process is a fucking mess AND requires resources that most could never obtain to begin with.

Your reply is basically, I suffered, so they should too. That's a pretty fucked up way to look at things dont ya think? Especially because it ignores the vast amounts of privilege it takes to even begin the process of immigrating. We are lucky we had the resources to allow for our spouses to get here, many people arent that lucky.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tix6m,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8t3wkc,SandersForPresident
"Please explain why what I said was absurd. All I did was point out the America is a younger country than some others, and native Americans were certainly here before us, but ultimately the entire concept of a ""native population"" is somewhat arbitrary. You can disagree but I don't see how it's absurd. ",Teiresias666,e8tpknb,SandersForPresident
"Your position is naive. In a perfect world i would agree with you, but in our imperfect world governments are necessary, and they must operate within a finite scope.

These are not ""my constructs,"" they are the pinnacle of several thousand years of experimentation with societal structures. They are an imperfect solution to a profound problem.",Teiresias666,e8rz3zj,SandersForPresident
"No costumes here. I know the meaning of the word “immigrant”. 

[A person who comes to live permanently in a foreign country.](https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/immigrant) 

What meaning are you using?",sirjaimes,e8smrum,SandersForPresident
"Should’ve used the word “descendant” then.

Either way the comment’s not as insightful and deep as it sounds.",sirjaimes,e8spcuf,SandersForPresident
"Like, with zero processing/regulation? Can't think of a place where that's happening, to be frank",helpmydickisbleeding,e8rdaga,SandersForPresident
This is reddit. Cant have anyone form their own opinions. You stick to whatever line whatever subreddit you're in is pushing or you get booted.,SithAlpaca,e8sgqee,SandersForPresident
"Dehumanizing language toward immigrants (""sneaking in and dropping babies"") and children is considered trolling and bannable here. You are also flagged as a /r/hillaryforprison user, an alt-right troll sub.",WhiskeyInferno,e8rv1xz,SandersForPresident
"Not quite complete. [There's sales taxes & property taxes and whatnot too.](https://files.taxfoundation.org/20170417141714/TFD-17-chart-2.png) that's ballpark $28b more. Plus ripple effects too. I wouldn't be surprised if those 12m residents result in north of $8,000 bucks per person, $100 billion, being added to the public coffers. ",Chartis,e8ss1wt,SandersForPresident
"You're talking about someone reframing your position when it's based on a strawman argument to begin with. 

""Immigration Law in the US was established as a tool for White Supremacy so listening to people cry about ""illegal"" immigration is disingenuous and ignorant of our history, or maybe they are just truly hateful people that like to blame others for their own ability to rise to the occasion. My money is on the later of the two."" How about you try and prove that? 
""More often than not I find it to be White Men in particular that are extremely hostile toward immigrants, which is interesting seeing as how being a White Man in the US is basically playing life on easy mode"" this is just an anecdote which means nothing to the bigger picture - especially since you're probably just asserting your confirmation bias. 

As to your last paragraph, why does your view of the countries of origin for many illegal immigrants (or those overstaying visas, whatever the case) have to be so god damn condescending? How many of these illegal immigrants do you ACTUALLY think are escaping imminent death, or a war zone, or cartels? There are refugee processes for them, no? It's not quite ""immigration"" in that case. I 100% agree that many people overstaying visas or illegally crossing the border are escaping potentially life-threatening conditions, but that's not even close to the root of these immigration issues. 
Many illegal immigrants in the US cross the US-Canada border to avoid deportation (again, because of visas) while being completely ignorant of Canadian immigration laws, that are barely being enforced. The same thing happens in the States when citizens from south of the US border illegally cross - many are completely ignorant of immigration laws. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8t5lca,SandersForPresident
"So your solution is to make those who can pay, pay. And those who cant, don't have to. ",HarrisJB78,e8tjh4k,SandersForPresident
"If China makes the air in their country unbreathable, is it only China who suffers?

If the US allows uncontrolled oil spills for 10 years, is it only the people of the US who suffer?

And to what country protects the wild creatures as their citizens? Certainly the wild creatures are citizens of our planet and deserving of the right to basic needs of clean water, food, and habitat?",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8ssiyr,SandersForPresident
"In *your* world people hate each other.

I am sick and tired of living in *your* world.",xxoites,e8rzy67,SandersForPresident
"[Child](https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/child) is a synonym for [descendant](https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/descendant). There's no special definition, I literally used a synonym to illustrate a point.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8soxm0,SandersForPresident
You thought it sounded insightful and deep? Me too. I also think it's quite meaningful.,Chartis,e8sprn4,SandersForPresident
"Well, that’s a shame.",helpmydickisbleeding,e8sirfm,SandersForPresident
"I was on that sub back when it started. I haven't posted there in ages. And how would you word the action of people illegally entering an area (sneaking) to have a child on US soil. That's literally what sneaking is.

Are you saying they proudly entered the country using entirely legal means?",-Master-Builder-,e8sc36f,SandersForPresident
"> Immigration Law in the US was established as a tool for White Supremacy

Not a straw-man, but good to know you are aware of logical fallacies.

> How about you try and prove that?  

I don't need to ""prove it"" it is in our history. How can you in good conscious look at Immigration Law (which started with & continued to use race as a means of determining admittance) isn't steeped and established in racism. The definition of White was such a shitty and false notion that the SCOTUS was forced to acknowledge that a dark skinned I think Indian man is in fact White under the definition provided because his ancestry came from the Caucasus Mountains however they rejected his claim because they were using the ""common sense"" definition. See [US Vs Bhagat Singh Thind](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Bhagat_Singh_Thind).


The creation of a legal definition of ""White"" came to be about the same time as immigration laws came into being. There was also a massive nativist population exerting political pressure on the US Congress to restrict immigration based on race which came to fruition cause like I said, see US vs Bhagat Singh Thind. There's several other cases, a few of them older than US vs Bhagat Singh Thind but his case is the 1st that comes to mind.

I can understand that the vast majority of US citizens don't receive a well rounded education when it comes to our history. Too much exceptionalism and glossing over of some of the most vile things our nation has ever done because well it looks bad. Sadly that means folks end up mis-educated and unaware of how much they don't know.

Here's a UC Berkeley Study examining racism in past and current immigration law published in [2016.] (https://scholarship.law.berkeley.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1264&context=blrlj)

[Ozawa vs the US](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozawa_v._United_States) is another example of racism in immigration.

Anecdotes aren't dismissed outright, they are just a weaker form of evidence. That anecdote is also the summation of 30+ years living as a Straight, White, Man in the US and seeing as how I am committing on Straight, White, Men, being one myself...well maybe men in this nation ought to do some reflection because our demographic has been and still is the most dangerous and destructive in the US. Violent Crime, Rape, Race Crimes, etc by and large are committed by straight, white, men. There's a reason that so many women say ""men are trash"" because our culture has major issues with toxicity, violence, and racism.

The root cause of these issues is that Immigration Law was established as a racist means of controlling who came to the nation and that it continues to do so. The root cause is the collective shedding of our native cultures for some made up bullshit called ""White"", something so poorly thought out and unscientific that PoC challenged it and eventually the laws had to change. The fact that there have been powerful and strong anti-immigration waves aimed at specific peoples is more evidence that it is about race and power and not about protecting the nation or doing what is best.

From anti-miscegenation laws prohibiting the marrying of different races, to the creation of the White Imaginary, to the formation of groups like the Asiatic Exclusion League, all the way on up to modern anti-Latino attitudes this has always been about race and power, to suggest otherwise is dishonest.

Even *IF* the racist results of these decisions were not intended, they still remain racist. Intent seldom matters.

> How many of these illegal immigrants do you ACTUALLY think are escaping imminent death, or a war zone, or cartels?

Tens of thousands. We admit about 20,000 of them. I also know there are at least 5000 of them headed here now, displaced due to the rape of Latin American nations by the US and other capitalists.

>  There are refugee processes for them, no? It's not quite ""immigration"" in that case. 

Sure, there are however getting refugee status is not simply a matter of saying you are fleeing violence. You have to prove it. Prove who you are, who your family is, where you were born, and why you were forced to leave. So basically you better have all your paperwork ready BEFORE you need the status because you can and many are turned away. You don't just apply and you are in. You must have a referral from the UN called a USRAP. Your fear of returning must be ""well founded"". Until they are processed as a refugee they remain an asylee and as such are not eligible for any government assistance. So if you don't have someone to take you in, your'e in a bad spot. And here's the best part...if a mistake is made, if the application is declined, there is no appeal. You get sent back end of story.

Finally, even if we wanted to ignore the Chinese Exclusion act, the history of laws related to immigration and naturalization going back to the late 18th century...is about race. In order for a person to apply for citizenship they have to live in the country for 2 years, maintain their current residence for a year, and...this is the real meat of it they had to be ""free white persons"" of ""good moral character"" in order to received naturalization rights.

That is to say that the very 1st law passed in the US specifically restricted citizenship by race and it just kept going from there.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8t9k8b,SandersForPresident
Whats your point? Yeah when one country misbehaves other countries have to choose how to react. That doesnt mean we can live in a fantasy world with no borders or regional powers.,Teiresias666,e8t77vg,SandersForPresident
"Get used to it, my man, because it's been this way since the dawn of man and it isn't going away anytime soon. ",Flabpack221,e8s9mv4,SandersForPresident
Then stop hating people you disagree with? Set the example? ,gargantuanphallus,e8se0kp,SandersForPresident
"Ok great. So you’ve figured out ~95% of the population is descended from immigrants.

So what?",sirjaimes,e8splsb,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, sounded. 

Like one of those mottos women have printed on a pillow.",sirjaimes,e8sq7uw,SandersForPresident
"It's difficult to address all of your points as well as the UC Berkeley study to which I am taking greatly with a grain of salt -- given the political climate at UC Berkeley. Not only that, but the content of the study makes certain inferences and uses loaded words which display the intent of the authors. 

To suggest that those immigration laws were used as a tool for white supremacy, that's just not the case. The Naturalization Act of 1906 included those of African descent, but was apparently intended to address the inconsistencies at the state level -- states would selectively enforce naturalization laws for their own electoral benefit. 

If I'm not mistaken, the cases you brought up revolved around the naturalization of foreign born citizens, not necessarily their ability to immigrate to the US. Those of African descent were eligible for naturalization, which I assume had something to do with the creation of the term ""African American"". In the 1940 Immigration Act which replaced the 1906 one, a much more diverse group was eligible for naturalization, although certain provisions within the act meant the loss of citizenship for some English residents which leads me to believe there's not necessarily a white supremacy element to those immigration laws. The 1990 act that came after that seemed to level the playing field for naturalization of all citizens. I also don't believe there was much German immigration after the 1940 act was implemented, and the Nazi Party were pretty well white supremacists. 
I honestly cannot address your personal identification of being a ""straight white male"" as I strongly, strongly disagree with your opinions on that issue. But the group most responsible for the crimes you listed.. You're simply not correct on that one. If the US population of white people (excluding latinos) is about 79%, then cumulative crimes may belong to them. Per capita, that's extremely far from being the case. 
Immigration laws were instituted for much more than anything relating to white supremacy -- politics and war were incredibly different in the early 20th century and earlier, even in the 1940s. The AEL was founded very early in the 1900s, and after a challenge of Japanese Americans for the right to attend SF public schools - they ended up winning and earned that right. But this wasn't a government organization anyway. 

Again, I can't address all the points, but to even suggest that we admit thousands illegal immigrants due to ""the rape of Latin American nations by the US and other capitalists"" is almost wholly incorrect. For example, if MS13 is a motivation for Mexicans to immigrate to achieve citizenship or refugee status, I don't see them being a product of American raping other countries or capitalism that's not domestic. 

But the process for admittance of refugees is partly due to the fact that those applying for refugee status actually *require* it instead of other incentives to move to the US. This process definitely isn't 100% perfect, but with me being Canadian and seeing the opposite end of the illegal immigration/refugee claims, examples of refugee claimants from Africa overstaying visas in the US shows how effectively the system can be abused. Almost 90% of those claimants (I could be getting the numbers wrong by a little bit) were predicted to be rejected. 

So to conclude, and again I can't address everything, immigration law is inclusive of updated and modern laws to which factually have nothing to do with white supremacy and were repealed and updated to reflect that. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8tcrw9,SandersForPresident
"I'm simply pointing out that acting politically as if the world stops at your borders and there's no need to be cooperative, is stupid in the most basic sense of the word.",ShineOnBenevolentSun,e8uvx1q,SandersForPresident
Did you even read the article or just flying by the seat of your pants and ranting at people's comments failing to understand the context in which the statements were made and with regard to what they are about?,ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8srrtg,SandersForPresident
Those are the ones they find important and that resonate.,Chartis,e8sqbgs,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I'm out. You are all over the place. I've provided you evidence, you reject it because its contests your own beliefs. You cant address my points because you don't have the knowledge to do so. Your inability to see and comprehend the destruction and theft the US has committed repeatedly in Latino nations just further illustrates how little you know about US involvement in those nations. The fact you can't see how capitalists exploited and still exploit nations in the Americas and huge swaths of Africa (and other ""poor"" nations) just tells me that you haven't looked or don't care because it hasn't negatively affected you.

I've addressed your points. I've provided cited materials. I'm done, this is Reddit and I've already gone above and beyond what most would do. It's not my job to teach you and I certainly don't owe you a thesis or dissertation on the presence and uses of racism in the current and past iterations of US Immigration Law. The racism is right there in the history, refusing to acknowledge that is just an emotional commitment to ignorance.

Canada is a racist society as well. Sure, not quite as extreme as the US but your own government has done (and recently too I might add) some pretty horrible things to non-Whites. Y'all like people to think its a nice little nation but the PoC I know and the history I know shows Canada has major issues with racism and xenophobia as well...why you might ask? Well because the European nations that created and shaped your and my nations...were racist as fuck and built that racism into the very fabric of our nations.

Also, Fact doesn't mean *YOU* think it is correct. A fact is a verifiable statement found to be true. 

Lets do a brain exercise. Racism deals with the exclusion of peoples from civic life (and other things) based on race. And 'White' is legally considered a race (although scientifically race is not real). So if the US created an immigration and citizenship policy, one that said something like ""You have to be White to be a citizen""...that would be an exclusion from civic life based on race, therefore racist. So yes, US Immigration & citizenship laws WERE founded as racist laws. Saying otherwise is untruthful and racist because it downplays the severity of the issue, and by downplaying it it receives less attention, which perpetuates the issues rather than addressing them.

The US' Immigration and Citizenship laws have since their inception been steeped in race. IMO You need to study more history because I ain't buying the BS you are pushing. Adios.

PS. Seriously...MS13 is your example? Could you have picked anything nearer and dearer to Trump's racist depictions of Latinos as your example? And yeah, there is a pretty strong argument to be made about how US interference has hobbled many Latino nations causing economic uncertainty which has been a contributing factor to the proliferation of Cartels and other outbreaks of gang & political violence.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8th17f,SandersForPresident
"I agree, but I find it a very strange point to make, since I never said anything to the contrary. ",Teiresias666,e8uwv9h,SandersForPresident
"NM, don't answer. I went through some of your post history, you are not someone I wish to converse with.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8sry9o,SandersForPresident
"Okay I’m gonna ignore the rest of what you said because you’re clearly not open to debate and see everything through your own little lens. 

MS13 as an example? You saying there aren’t legitimate refugee claims on the basis of human trafficking, rape and other violent crimes? You put up a whole wall of text to literally say nothing, you think immigration is the same as naturalization (which it’s not) and cited a bunch of shit that goes back to the 19th century for fuck’s sake. THEN you go and virtue signal with quotes from the SJW playbook? Get off your high horse. You provided no evidence to back up your claims, I had to explain YOUR sources to you, and yet you still, REALLY REALLY want to believe that immigration laws are a racist tool for white supremacy. Why did the black president deport a bunch of illegals? White supremacy? 

You couldn’t even explain how Latin America has somehow elected terrible governments and spawned cartels because of white people and capitalists. I was trying to be as civil as I could, but I can tell you’re just plain wrong. You provide anecdotes and ad-hom and use the “straight white male” experience you’ve fabricated as evidence supporting your claims. 

You sound like a self-loathing racist trying to score virtue points among groups that leftists are trying to tell that they’re being “oppressed” to help secure minority voters. 

Also, naturalization and immigration are nowhere near the same thing. You’ve completely misread and misinterpreted your sources and the purposes for naturalization and immigration acts. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8ti99g,SandersForPresident
"> THEN you go and virtue signal with quotes from the SJW playbook? 

There it is. I was just waiting, I knew if I replied a few times we'd get that inner MAGA to expose itself. Its disappointing to find folks like yourself here, even more-so if you sincerely support Sanders.

Ahh now you are the victim in this matter?",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tik1a,SandersForPresident
"Wait, so you intentionally misinterpreted all your sources to conflate them with white supremacy? 

I’m no MAGA dude, nor am I claiming to be a victim (I actually have no idea where you got that idea) I just don’t think it’s healthy or productive to harbor that much self loathing and your own racism while looking for white supremacy around every corner to try and prop yourself up morally. Kinda like when radical feminism blames everything on a patriarchy. 

Also I’m Canadian and was kind of a Rand Paul fan. Would never have voted for trump. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8tj3pu,SandersForPresident
"Oh Rand Paul, Racism Lite. You speak like a conservative, you admire one of their racism lite leaders. Libertarians are just color blind racists that fail to understand that Smith, Locke, Etc's economic theories and polices were based off the idea of Whites being the ideal, the civilized, the most advanced. 

Seriously some of the most racist shit thought up about nation states and various economic polices and models came from those worshiped at the alter of Libertarianism. Not to mention that a lot of their ideas were just shit. They werent created in a scientific manner and rationalism as a whole isn't rational. Humans arent ration beings, we are emotion beings and the markets more correctly reflect that than any semblance of rational thought. Or the ""invisible hand"" as some unseen and magical force that just happens. He was right about self-interest tho, that motivates a lot of people.

The biggest difference between Libertarianism and the Alt-Right is that Libertarians are all about individuality whereas the Alt-Right is about collectivism. Other than that the two mirror each other quite well, one is just less obvious in its inherit racism. Whats even worse is that so many Alt-Right folks end up identifying as such because they started off as Libertarians. Libertarianism is for White Men. Seriously, go look at the composition of Libertarians, they are overwhelming White men, more-so than the Republicans.

FFS Rand Paul said he drew issue with the Civil Rights laws of the 1960s. Even if he truly didn't hate PoC he was still advocating for policies which negatively impacted their communities. He was upset that the government was telling businesses they couldnt discriminate because that impedes on a persons right to discriminate. That is to say if a business didn't want to serve Black folks, that was perfectly ok with Paul...that is straight up racism.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tk3fh,SandersForPresident
"> The AEL was founded very early in the 1900s, and after a challenge of Japanese Americans for the right to attend SF public schools - they ended up winning and earned that right. But this wasn't a government organization anyway.

I also wanted to revisit this. You seem to think or at least based on your statement that the AEL won the right of Japanese and Korea Americans to attend public schools. That isn't what they did. They were trying to force Japanese and Koreans (who werent attending school with their Chinese counterparts) out of public White schools and into a forcefully segregated ""Oriental"" school. So yes, the AEL won, but what they won was racist exclusion of Japanese and Koreans, they didn't secure the right for those groups to attend public school.

The AEL's entire purpose for existing was to push people of Asian ancestry out of the US. They wanted the US to be a White Man's nation. And yes, its obvious they were not a government agency, that said they affected government agencies and pushed for policies of racism and exclusion and so for that they got tossed in with a mix of other forms of supremacy exerted on PoC when I was talking about White Supremacy.",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tl1hw,SandersForPresident
"The concept of free market is why Rand is “okay” with a business not serving blacks. First of all, he’s definitely NOT “okay” with that on the basis of being racist. He’s okay with the idea that private business can choose who they offer their services to. If he was okay with the government doing that, then I’d say there’s racist sentiment. That’s not the case, and I can just as easily say he’s okay with black people refusing to serve white people. Or okay with gays not serving evangelicals. I really don’t understand your intent behind trying to find racism where it isn’t, this tribalism is really destroying the social climate of the US and leaking into the western world as a whole. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8tnoru,SandersForPresident
"Right so by allowing people to be racist he himself is not partaking in racism because even though he thinks it should be allowed, he himself would never turn away a person of color.

Do you realize how that sounds? He is enabling racism, he is complicit in racism, you are the sum of your actions, he is being racist, so how exactly can a person commit or allow a racist act and not be held to account?

TLDR: Says and does racist shit, but aint a racist...",ThisPlaceIsToxic,e8tpza1,SandersForPresident
"Where are your beliefs regarding racism in this case coming from, as in why are they so extreme? Do you believe in free speech? Because if so, you're complicit in racism. 

Honestly, let's pretend that in an alternate universe that refusing to bake a wedding cake for a gay couple is against the law. The bigot has to make the cake. Is he still gonna be a bigot? Probably more so, but with no consequences because he can't lawfully refuse unless he's ready to willingly go to jail or get a fine, or whatever. 

Now, it is my opinion in this case that the consequences for expressing a negative and bigoted belief due to religion are much worse than muzzling bigots because it went public and got a LOT of attention. I neither agree with religion or Jack Phillips' stance on marriage and his refusal to make the cake, but do you not believe that receiving death threats, public vilification, and a court case are pretty dire consequences? 
Now, let's say I agree that the law should compel private businesses not to discriminate. What do you propose people like Rand Paul do to address racism? 
Honestly, these decisions have little to do with trying to oppress others. These things are what allow you to call others who aren't racist, racist. You can choose to create a business, and decide not to offer your services to people like me and Rand Paul. Do you really want those freedoms to be revoked? 

Edit: Also for clarity's sake, I voted for Trudeau and his values and promises really seemed to align with Bernie. I would have rather had Bernie become the president than Donald Trump and Rand Paul, my example of Rand was used because I felt he would've been a much better candidate than Trump (in terms of policy and values) although I think in the event he somehow became the nominee Hillary or even Bernie would have destroyed him in the election. ",Anticitizen-Zero,e8tr5kd,SandersForPresident
Article: [Defense firms see only hundreds of new U.S. jobs from Saudi mega deal](https://twitter.com/ShibleyTelhami/status/1057263690825846784),Chartis,e8ts5m0,SandersForPresident
[Want to know more?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fiPq7C06zjQ),Chartis,e8t15p0,SandersForPresident
"well... you sort of have to if you are a young black conservative, wouldn't you.",thesilverpig,e8sxmxr,SandersForPresident
Dude is relentless. I can't keep up to his sprinting.,Chartis,e8qisy6,SandersForPresident
"Voted Today. Gillum all the way.

One thing I would say though is that there was zero focus in my county (Marion) for Gillum, not even one mailer.  I received 6-8 mailers for DeSantis blasting Gillum on blatantly false claims.  Just one mailer could have made a difference in some people's mind's to vote for Gillum.",Abrham_Smith,e8qyr6a,SandersForPresident
"Orlando - https://act.berniesanders.com/event/rally/59

WHERE

CFE Arena, University of Central Florida

12777 Gemini Blvd North

Orlando, FL 32816

WHEN

Wednesday, October 31, 11:30 AM

DOORS OPEN

11:00 am

...............................................

Tampa - https://act.berniesanders.com/event/rally/60

WHERE

Fowler Fields at University of South Florida

11600 USF Bull Run Dr

Tampa, FL 33620

WHEN

Wednesday, October 31, 3:30 PM

DOORS OPEN

2:00 pm

",gideonvwainwright,e8qil4t,SandersForPresident
Can't he come at 6? I gotta work,Thetman38,e8qndj0,SandersForPresident
"Looks promising that Rick Scott will be defeated in his Senate bid, too. God, I hope so. Voldemort's reign must end.",lennybird,e8qui0i,SandersForPresident
Yay!!! I've been eagerly awaiting his return to FL! of course though he comes into town one week after i leave town for family matters lol,TheDorkyFangirl,e8r1e4t,SandersForPresident
was hoping he was announcing something else...,iusedtogotodigg,e8rhxkj,SandersForPresident
"Saw him this evening (Tuesday) in Bethesda, MD at a rally for the democratic gubernatorial candidate, Ben Jealous.   I don't think he ever sleeps. ",NewsMom,e8rlb3k,SandersForPresident
Wow. How about a head's up next time?,BulletproofSade,e8rtgrw,SandersForPresident
He really needs this after his numbers tanked post-Hillary endorsement.,BopTheDrass,e8rdu1m,SandersForPresident
"i have this really weird feeling about him traveling to florida right now after everything....  
i know its me being paranoid, but i have immense anxiety about it.   
does he have security?",Snuffaluffakuss,e8r4npe,SandersForPresident
"I'm in FL too and seen only two gillum signs so far hoping he wins but it seems more and more like a toss-up. Hillary just HAD to stick her nose in a state that hates her with a passion. And Gillum had to say come on in doors open also ""Affordable"" healthcare🙄🙄?",Butthole_Pucker217,e8rd54r,SandersForPresident
I miss when Gillum was a medicare for all champion. Those days were short and sweet. Maybe Bernie can bring him back to the light side.,robotzor,e8r1lqu,SandersForPresident
Dangit. I can make the time but my vehicle is currently in questionable condition waiting for a part at the mechanic.,MultifariAce,e8rmxrv,SandersForPresident
"Maybe you need to take a ""mental health"" day? :)",germanbini,e8rrbb4,SandersForPresident
I hope you're right. Bill Nelson is awesome and I don't know why anyone would pick Rick Scott over him. ,katievanover,e8rfvc7,SandersForPresident
Gotta wait.,gideonvwainwright,e8srbns,SandersForPresident
ugh with you there. Gillum needs to stick to the ideas that won him the primaries ,TheDorkyFangirl,e8sfp4f,SandersForPresident
"What's different than his most recent Sept 2nd claim here?

http://www.ontheissues.org/Governor/Andrew_Gillum_Health_Care.htm",Abrham_Smith,e8r1zuu,SandersForPresident
"I'd hesitate to use ""awesome"" to describe a neo-liberal who endorsed H.R. Clinton over Bernie. He's fine. Better than Scott. Not awesome. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8rnm8k,SandersForPresident
Rick Scott is an asshole,strongbob25,e8rk6zl,SandersForPresident
Gotta grind!,Chartis,e8t0kgo,SandersForPresident
"After his meeting with Cory Booker, he started using the phrase we dread most, ""affordable healthcare,"" which has often been used by candidates as a copout to full-on medicare for all single payer while sounding favorable to people, but who knows. As a governor it probably won't matter so much his stance on that issue.",robotzor,e8r2gtg,SandersForPresident
"I grew up in a county that was able to see first hand Bill Nelson’s work. I might be bias but he was one of the few politicians I got to see in action out in the community, helping the community. ",katievanover,e8rns21,SandersForPresident
"First article when you google, Bill Nelson Bernie Sanders

> [Bill Nelson not on board with Bernie Sanders' single-payer idea](https://www.tampabay.com/florida-politics/buzz/2017/09/13/bill-nelson-not-on-board-with-bernie-sanders-single-payer-idea/)

Also on the first page,

>[“No,” Sen. Bill Nelson said when asked if he was excited about Sanders’ candidacy. He added that Sanders would lose his critical swing state of Florida in a general election. “I’m totally behind Hillary.”](https://www.politico.com/story/2015/07/bernie-sanders-2016-senate-colleagues-opinions-120007)

",DrCarsonsCure,e8ro1ld,SandersForPresident
"I don’t really get your point? Bill Nelson is a decent politician. You can support Bernie and Bill Nelson, so what’s the issue? ",katievanover,e8roazm,SandersForPresident
"If you didn't support Bernie in 2016, that speaks to character. There are maybe some situations where that was acceptable, but if you were bashing the only person with integrity running for President in support of a crook, that's a problem. You can't bash our leader, and turn around and expect progressives to champion your candidacy. 

I said Nelson was fine, better than Rick Scott maybe. He's no progressive icon though, and he disrespected Senator Sanders in 2016. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8scagw,SandersForPresident
"His character from my personal standpoint stands out to me. He has been a supportive figure in our community. Not sure if you’ve even lived in Florida to see this. I can’t imagine Bernie would support you dragging a decent politician just because he backed Hillary. That’s an odd viewpoint. Bill Nelson is cool and I’m sorry you haven’t been able to see this first hand. The enemy is Rick Scott not Bill Nelson. Bill Nelson is a more moderate Democrat, that’s not a secret but damn the man has supported his state more than most. ",katievanover,e8squek,SandersForPresident
"Since we're nearly 5 years old, I present [r/SandersForPresident's Halloween costume.](https://web.archive.org/web/20131212190753/reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident) Now let's go knock on some doors: [Trick or Treat!](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9skvx0/halloween_eve_trick_or_treat_your_vote_matters/)",Chartis,e8sk4ua,SandersForPresident
i have a question - So for as I'm aware Mr.sanders is for tuition free college. But where does he stand for those who already have a large student loan debt? ,Jncocontrol,e8ujdet,SandersForPresident
"I'm seeing news that republicans are having lead in early voting. How accurate is that, and how will that affect midterms?",sasiralla,e8siz0g,SandersForPresident
"Early voting numbers are interesting but not necessarily predictors of the outcome in November. I'm excited by how many people are voting early this year, but trying not to get too bogged down in the details. All we know is party ID, not how they voted.",GrandpaChainz,e8sj85q,SandersForPresident
"remember this in nc dems had good numbers in 2012 and 2016 ine arly voting and still obama and clinton lost nc to romney and trump.
it's good everyone votes but in recent years republicans have started voting early more.it doesn't gurantee what will happen on election day.also remember wildcard the indepednet vote which media doesn't focus on much nowadays and polling says isn't too happy with trump eather.dem+Indy vote means bad news for gop.",ChrisRobbins15,e8smugr,SandersForPresident
"I mean if there was really a blue wave and dems were so desperate to show their anger at trump, their numbers would have been more by now right? It just doesn't seem so. Lets see",sasiralla,e8snzgy,SandersForPresident
"A lot of us, especially in the progressive wing of the party, are registered independent (if you live in a closed primary state, make sure you register Democrat before 2020 though!!!!).  And some states (my state Texas, for example) don't have partisan registration.  But so far the data looks great here- records in the most blue counties while the age distribution of voters is shifting toward younger voters.",Terrible_Inspection,e8sttxv,SandersForPresident
"Real populists like Bernie care about the people and support the people's agenda.  So-called right wing populists like Trump merely pretend to be populist.  They are demagogues who lie to the people and promise them things they never intend to deliver, while supporting their wealthy backers.",TheLightningbolt,e8qudrw,SandersForPresident
"""Oh really gnome-iki?  You and your bernie bros would know, since medicaire for all is clearly fascism unless hillary does it!""  - Peter douche (silErabbit) probably",phurbain,e8r4ezl,SandersForPresident
I hope she wins the NY advocate office,4now5now6now,e8ro5zp,SandersForPresident
"[The fascist won 97% of the rich cities, while Haddad won 98% of the poor cities.](https://www.estadao.com.br/infograficos/politica,bolsonaro-vence-em-97-das-cidades-mais-ricas-e-haddad-em-98-das-pobres,935854?utm_source=facebook:newsfeed&utm_medium=social-organic&utm_campaign=redes-sociais:102018:e&utm_content=:::&utm_term=)

It's not populism. It's the rich consolidating their own power.",BopTheDrass,e8rdz2e,SandersForPresident
"Neo-fascism is a post–World War II ideology that includes significant elements of fascism. Neo-fascism usually includes ultranationalism, populism, authoritarianism, nativism and opposition to immigration, as well as opposition to liberal democracy, parliamentarianism, Marxism, Communismand socialism.",serviceenginesoon,e8qxr24,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8rk1lu,SandersForPresident
"Mussolini was ""for the people"" and working man at first too. Not saying that as a slight towards Bernie, but those so called republicans. The people later hung him and beat and shot at his dead body",serviceenginesoon,e8qx33w,SandersForPresident
"Peter Daou's actually gone under some form of bizarre political shift recently. He's been defending Bernie in recent tweets, and flat out saying people like Joe Manchin don't belong in the party",BopTheDrass,e8re21k,SandersForPresident
"> The fascist won 97% of the rich cities, while Haddad won 98% of the poor cities.

Or the destroyed middle class was fed up with cleptocracy and PT buying the votes of poor people.  Nearly 40% of Bolosanor's support came from people who specifically stated they wanted to vote against PT during the second election. Why not look at the new makeup of the federal legaslature? It's more diverse than ever with rising support of actual liberal parties that don't steal from the public.  

Reality is not black or white. Not everything is rich vs poor. ",Harvinator06,e8rjocp,SandersForPresident
Is the guy actually a fascist or just a right winged hardliner? ,PoliticalDissidents,e8rnart,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8rk6eg,SandersForPresident
Rhetorically sure. All fascists co-opt the language of the left. Then once they're in power the first thing they do is murder leftists en-masse. The ruling government of fascist Italy was Mussolini and...wait for it....owners of industry and business leaders! Not exactly populist in practice.,was_kinetics,e8r4ifq,SandersForPresident
are you serious?  I stopped twittering about 5 months ago so i'm out of the loop.  That's surprising.  Did he stop getting brock bucks?  Is half the internet still blocked?,phurbain,e8rtg32,SandersForPresident
Fed up with kleptocracy so they put in a dictator,BopTheDrass,e8rjud9,SandersForPresident
He outright said he wanted a dictatorship and to torture political enemies. If his son was gay he said he'd want him dead.,BopTheDrass,e8rngfb,SandersForPresident
"Im very aware of that. Again i was comparing him to that of the far right with the rhetoric of being for the people, when its the exact opposite",serviceenginesoon,e8r5dxr,SandersForPresident
Mussolini was a card carrying socialist before WWI and only left after being ostracized for supporting Italian intervention during WWI.,Harvinator06,e8rjm5g,SandersForPresident
"It's one of the rare cases of un-douching I've seen. Not sure what specifically prompted the change, probably a combination of things. He's not fully flipped, for example he still likes Hillary, but he changed his attitude towards Bernie and progressives. He strongly supports Ocasio-Cortez. He's also been unblocking people.",BopTheDrass,e8rtwra,SandersForPresident
"Apologies, that wasnt clear to me.",was_kinetics,e8r5gxr,SandersForPresident
">As the impacts of climate change increase, global temperatures will continue to rise, effecting each and every one of our cities and towns. Through warmer air and water and rising sea levels, climate change makes hurricanes more powerful and dangerous. We must listen to the scientific community, not the CEOs of the fossil fuel industry, and take drastic steps to fight climate change. If we do not, disasters like this will become the new normal.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157419512322908)",Chartis,e8rrz2e,SandersForPresident
How the hell does Michael Avenatti have 12 percent? ,BopTheDrass,e8qirbr,SandersForPresident
"Joe Biden, the establishment media's favorite potential 2020 candidate, literally wrote an article very recently about being anti-populist, equating Bernie and the ""far-left"" to Trump and the far-right, essentially saying that only a centrist can fix the country. I don't know how somebody could be more blatantly pro-elitism than coming out and saying you're against populism. Ya know, populism... the support for the concerns of ordinary people? But the corporate media will *still* do everything they can to paint him in a positive light, as the country's savior from Trump, while either disregarding or blaming Bernie *again,* and people will *still* eat that shit up like it's fuckin' candy. If it's Biden v. Trump in 2020, I'm not so sure Trump is gonna lose. I'm very glad to see that the people still support Bernie and I hope that the Dems don't fuck him over again. They most definitely will though, they have done nothing to convince me that they won't.",jrob28,e8qu46w,SandersForPresident
"I'm just worried that the corporate left will sling Biden at Sanders. Biden is a corporate stooge, but he can definitely get votes.",huskman,e8qi5z2,SandersForPresident
Does anyone actually believe Michael fucking Avenatti is going to run for president? Please. ,iSlimshade,e8qt7d7,SandersForPresident
Lets ride y’all,superomnia,e8qvtjw,SandersForPresident
"Wow, that is surprising given that he was completely left off polls all together a couple months ago.",marshall19,e8qvk0y,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders is the huge elephant in the living room that the Democrats don't want to acknowledge or talk about.

They're all sitting on the floor while Sanders is comfortably on the sofa by himself. 

""What sofa?"" 

""Is there a sofa?"" 

""I didn't even know there was a sofa.""

""No, no, the floor is fine.""",bitdon55,e8sdci5,SandersForPresident
"avennti made several gaffes and blunders that will hurt him


Thanks for this poll
",4now5now6now,e8rn107,SandersForPresident
"Right now the dem party has an erratic, aggressive, irrational vibe.  This is totally not what Bernie was about during the 2016 election. ",isabelatticus,e8rpszf,SandersForPresident
Alot of people mentioning Joe biden possibly going for a run should also [Watch this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQ6wNmTDGbw&ab_channel=SecularTalk).,Butthole_Pucker217,e8sj24w,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qnfio,SandersForPresident
Please for God's sake let us wait a week ,bestestversionofme,e8qseqj,SandersForPresident
our media behaves like children,froli007,e8qnbxt,SandersForPresident
He just made two mistakes so If he runs that would come down. Also if he can't win a lawsuit against trump or do anything... then whats the point? Aventti seems a little high,4now5now6now,e8rnzoe,SandersForPresident
The media loves him. He is an anti-Trump candidate who behaves like Trump.,lovely_sombrero,e8sffrp,SandersForPresident
"He's intriguing as a VP option for Bernie, but he has to show respect to Bernie during the campaign for that to be an option. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8rnre2,SandersForPresident
"Unless it's Bernie, Trump will win. Those 2008 Obama voters aren't coming back unless the Dems bring something to the table and Bernie is the only one with name recognition that is currently capable of doing that. If the Dems rig the primary again, it's game over ",sirawesome63,e8rib9d,SandersForPresident
Fucking exactly.,huskman,e8r0f1w,SandersForPresident
"He already said insulting stuff to millennials.

I hope Biden runs because it would eliminate the age thing for Bernie",4now5now6now,e8rnnqw,SandersForPresident
Can he? He never made it far when he ran last time.,BopTheDrass,e8qi8xv,SandersForPresident
"> but he can definitely get votes.

Every other time he's tried, he's gotten *rinsed*. He's a dud, and he's definitely gonna get hit with some #metoo shit, mark my words. ",Andy1816,e8qxdai,SandersForPresident
"This seems likely to happen. The only question mark is whether biden will want to run, and he certainly has been active lately.",Teiresias666,e8qk6db,SandersForPresident
"i predict they will run spoiler candidates for iowa, new hampshire and california, however they have to make sure the minority vote is concentrated on their candidate. if that vote is split on super tuesday bernie wins in a landslide. so i think it's either gonna be biden or harris.",Surporat,e8qv83q,SandersForPresident
Wouldn’t mind him as attorney general.,skellener,e8r39sr,SandersForPresident
He might run -- he's that big an egoist. He won't get 1% in Iowa. He might not get 100 people to support him. But he still might run.,kazingaAML,e8qxm6w,SandersForPresident
"Hi `starking12`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9so2b7/-/e8qnfio/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e8qselq,SandersForPresident
As does our electorate. ,PresidentWordSalad,e8qruwt,SandersForPresident
I think it's most likely he goes with Barbara Lee or Tulsi for VP,BopTheDrass,e8rp9f7,SandersForPresident
"Avenatti would energize anti-Trump voters but would also turn off swing voters. Bernie needs to pick someone younger, whom he could really trust to carry forward his legacy. If Bernie is to have some kind of Reagan-esque impact on this country's politics, his VP has to be a true New-Dealer liberal. At the same time, they also need to have strong relationships with the establishment wing of the Senate and the House, and as a running mate, they need to help Bernie's chances in the South and with black voters.

Al Franken would be perfect but that's not happening. Warren's too old. Merkley's too ""straight, white Oregonian male"". Harris, Booker and Gillibrand are corporate wolves in 'progressive' sheep's clothing. Sherrod Brown is popular with blue collar voters but that's not something Bernie needs help with (though he could provide a boost in Ohio). 

In the House, I like Khanna and Jayapal. Both are young (42 and 53), have strong liberal records and are 'in' with the establishment. O'Rourke, if he *doesn't* win, would also be a strong candidate.

Stacey Abrams and Andrew Gillum are, IMO, the best out of all the candidates but there's no chance that they'd accept the offer if they each won their respective races, nor should they. They'd be far more useful as gubernatorial allies in the deep south rather than sitting around for 8 years, waiting for their turn to be President.

That leaves Nina Turner at the state level. She's a bit of a wild card, given that her only experience in gov't has been as a state senator, but if Bernie's the main attraction on the ticket, I don't think it'll matter (see: Dick Cheney, 2000). She's a strong orator and would gain enough leadership experience as VP to make a strong run in 2028. ",itsabobloblawlawbomb,e8tg187,SandersForPresident
Sorry... I just can't...,lovely_sombrero,e8sfgc5,SandersForPresident
"I don't think the establishment understand this. Literally, only Bernie beats Trump. 

Biden isn't doing it. Candidates like Booker or Kamala Harris won't have enough appeal for regular, working class voters. Bernie is the only candidate who is proven, exciting, and capable of winning. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8rnpui,SandersForPresident
"The thing I'm scared of is that Joe Biden has name recognition as well, and he's associated with Obama, which a lot of liberals liked. He's a corporatist through and through but people will vote for him because he was ""America's cool uncle"" for eight years and that's all that matters to them. But it's Bernie who wins in the polls, it's Bernie who focuses on the issues, it's Bernie who started a massive grassroots campaign, and at the end of the day it's Bernie that actually gives a dusty fuck about the ordinary citizen. I trust nobody else to represent me as President. ",jrob28,e8rkt6q,SandersForPresident
He didn’t run last time,H-E-L-L-M-O,e8qjamp,SandersForPresident
He's speaking tonight in Iowa.  Read into that what you will.,coldfusionman,e8qkx45,SandersForPresident
Gillum for VP,hueylongsgiantdong,e8txdib,SandersForPresident
"I don't think Barbara Lee or Tulsi appeal to working class voters in the Midwest. Democrats need to turn like 50,000 working class voters in the Midwest to win. Not sure a Hawaiin or 72 year old black from Oakland, CA moves the needle. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8scdfs,SandersForPresident
Barbara Lee is more valuable as Speaker of the House (or at least to put pressure on Pelosi) than VP. Tulsi is not a good VP candidate in the first place.,lovely_sombrero,e8sfic3,SandersForPresident
"Biden will get more votes in the south perhaps.... But Bernie has been campaigning  since 2015.... non stop. The moment he announces I will donate and start phone banking.... just like last time.
Watch Bernie out raise the other candidates like crazy in the first month..... first week.... they will all drop out",4now5now6now,e8rnvfd,SandersForPresident
I mean the last time he ran for president in 2008,BopTheDrass,e8qjcnh,SandersForPresident
8 years of VP changes a lot.  A lot of people will vote for him just on the basis of being connected to Obama.  Will probably get the endorsement from BO as well.,Terrible_Inspection,e8qp035,SandersForPresident
"To be fair, he was running against Obama and Clinton. Sanders and Biden are now considered the front runners for 2020 and have the greatest name recognition.",pablonieve,e8rinvx,SandersForPresident
"Oh, true, but he was splitting the vote with Clinton at the time, who was definitely more popular than he was back then.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e8qjgu7,SandersForPresident
I think once he speaks people will remember he's basically Hillary. Then his numbers will go down.,BopTheDrass,e8qrnqg,SandersForPresident
Yeah but even John Edwards got more votes than him,BopTheDrass,e8rj1ln,SandersForPresident
"well, not really - he didn’t even make it to Iowa i believe ",froli007,e8qnasl,SandersForPresident
"Edwards was the former VP candidate and seen as a serious contender. I'm not surprise a young, attractive, populist Southern stood out more than Biden.",pablonieve,e8rj7mu,SandersForPresident
Actually he was out right after Iowa. He got like 1% in '08.,kazingaAML,e8qxisn,SandersForPresident
"Whatever happens in the midterms, I hope every one of you will be ready to do the work for Bernie in April 2019 when he formally announces he's running.",magikowl,e8tdebc,SandersForPresident
Stupid questions shouldn't be answered.,Stephen_Hawkins,e8twwg8,SandersForPresident
"Bringing out votes is even more powerful than voting. Be who is needed.

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Ballot Initiatives](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives)",Chartis,e8pnomf,SandersForPresident
">The American people have a very clear choice in the upcoming elections. 

>1. Donald Trump & the Republican leadership in Congress, who made throwing 32 million Americans off of health insurance their number one priority in Washington. 

>2. ""[Medicare for All](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)"" supported by 16 senators and [122 House members.](https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All) It would guarantee everyone could get the health care they need without going into debt at far lower cost than the current dysfunctional system.  



>* [70% of Americans](http://pnhp.org/blog/2018/08/23/reutersipsos-poll-70-percent-support-medicare-for-all/) support expanding and improving Medicare to cover everyone 
>* the pharmaceutical industry charges us, by far, the highest prices in the world. 1 out of 5 Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe  
>* Medicare is the [most popular](http://www.asaging.org/sites/default/files/images/Brodie-Hamel-Norton-figure1.png), successful, & cost-effective health insurance program

---  

>As president, Trump has made our health care system worse:  

>* He proposed a $1 trillion cut to Medicaid, a $500 billion cut to Medicare, & a $72 billion cut to the Social Security disability fund  
>* As a result of his sabotage of the Affordable Care Act, 13 million more Americans will become uninsured over the next decade while millions more have seen their premiums rise  
>* His administration is working alongside 20 Republican state attorneys general to end the protection that the Affordable Care Act now guarantees to people with pre-existing conditions

 
---  


>When we eliminate:  

>* private insurance premiums
>* deductibles
>* co-payments

>the average American will pay substantially less for health care:    

>1. [A recent study by RAND](https://www.politico.com/states/f/?id=00000164-f261-d556-a1ec-ff759d100001) found that moving to a Medicare for All system in New York would save a family with an income of $185,000 or less about $3,000 per person a year, on average. 
>2. Even the projections from the conservative Mercatus Center suggest that the average American could [save about $6,000 under Medicare for All](https://preview.redd.it/568es2zlhnr11.png?width=1017&auto=webp&s=c1a59603cc8b477f71a4a041a9f50db11acaca41) over a 10-year period.

>It would also benefit the business community:  

>* Small and medium sized businesses would be free to focus on their core business goals 
>* Workers would not have to stay at jobs they dislike just because their employer provides decent health insurance

---  

>Trump is grossly distorting what the Medicare for All legislation does:  

>* It would not cut benefits for seniors on Medicare. Millions of seniors today cannot afford [dental care](https://i.redd.it/dt2xqpiseku11.jpg), vision care or hearing aids because Medicare does not cover them. Our proposal does. 
>* It would eliminate deductibles and copays for seniors and significantly lower the cost of prescription drugs. 
>* It allows seniors and all Americans to see the doctors they want, not the doctors in their insurance networks.  
>* Trump claims that Medicare for All is not affordable. That is nonsense. What we cannot afford is:  

>  * to continue [spending almost twice as much per capita](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DFwP1nPVwAEWDVt.jpg) on health care as any other country on Earth. 
>  * the $28,000 it currently costs to provide health insurance for the average family of 4.
>  * to have 30 million Americans with no health insurance & even more who are under-insured with high deductibles and high co-payments. 
>  * to have millions of Americans get sicker than they should, and in some cases die, because they can’t afford to go to the doctor.  

>If every major country on earth can guarantee health care to all and achieve better health outcomes, while [spending substantially less](https://i.imgur.com/LqzwyrX.jpg) per capita than we do, it is absurd for anyone to suggest that the United States of America cannot do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 11^th '18](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/10/11/bernie-sanders-donald-trump-lies-medicare-all-health-care-column/1594863002/)",Chartis,e8pfo4a,SandersForPresident
"[@Pontifex:](https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/1055421214129377280)   

* Health is not a consumer good, but a universal right: let us unite our efforts so that health services are available to all.",Chartis,e8po3k5,SandersForPresident
"PSA

When the Democrats take control of Congress, even if it's only one house, they will also control OVERSIGHT committees and the INVESTIGATIVE committees, and they will have subpoena power to find out exactly what Trump, the unindicted CO-CONSPIRATOR in a federal crime, and Republicans have been up to,

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

If you want to see what is in Mueller's report, the Republicans aren't going to tell you, but the Democrats, even with only one house, will be able to answer all of your questions.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

this is a referendum on Trump, and his policies, and if we beat them badly enough, the remaining Republicans will turn against Trump, and we could impeach him.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

And if all we do is take control of one house of Congress, we can make Trump's last two years in office really, really, really sh*ty.

**But, you have to vote for that to take place.**

[ Statistically speaking, and the Republicans know this, in a high turnout election the Democrats win.  Make sure you are registered because the Republicans have been deregistering people all over the place, and ](https://www.vote.org/am-i-registered-to-vote/)

##VOTE##

**VOTE, if for no other reason than because nobody in America should ever be considered too poor to live.**

Cut & Paste and Pass it on.",oldest_boomer_1946,e8pyjvc,SandersForPresident
"The poor have no place in the US, the land of the free*.",WOODEN_COUCH,e8ph82m,SandersForPresident
The saddest thing about this is that the system was and is still working. They only sabotaged it because of WHO implemented it. Yes - Sabotaged. GOP pulled funding out from under it AND THEN claimed it wasn't funded. ASSHOLES - Every one of them.,plywooden,e8pxicd,SandersForPresident
It's so hard to tell what their priority was.  Was it hating on muslims and Mexicans?  Was it hating on gays and transgenders?  Was it attacking a free press?  Was it giving themselves a massive tax break?,MostSensualPrimate,e8q79t1,SandersForPresident
"Gotta love all the comments about his ""mansions"". Bernie is ALREADY ready to give away whatever he needs to pay higher taxes. ",Dammit_Rab,e8qqzxb,SandersForPresident
"Don't forget putting children in cages.

Because of selfishness, fear, and cowardice.",neoikon,e8q9ta1,SandersForPresident
How many of those 32 million didn't want to buy health insurance but were forced to? ,pedantic--asshole,e8qcz1v,SandersForPresident
"My company used to have a banging insurance policy. Could easily cover s majority if not all of the insurance bills for an entire family of four. Then the ACA kicked in and it’s a near shadow of its formal self where the insurance policy covers a third or half at best. When a family member lost his job and the insurance that came with it, the ACA cost more than his work insurance; and grew year after year until he was able to get off it(still growing to this day too). The ACA was a steaming pile of shit the Democrats pushed through to pat themselves on the back. But hey let’s just find out what’s in it after we pass it. ",83622012,e8pnv7p,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8pubc0,SandersForPresident
"Saying health is a universal right is saying the labor of everyone in the healthcare industry is a universal right.

You support slavery.",Goddamnedengineer,e8pp1z5,SandersForPresident
">when

Don't set yourself up to be disappointed. Don't forget all those who thought Trump would lose.",MrMineHeads,e8q73il,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8qeixr,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8po9vv,SandersForPresident
This! It's like speeding a car into a wall and then claiming it wasn't manufactured properly. ,Towns-a-Million,e8qb55x,SandersForPresident
"The many build, they are [rightly self-serving seeing it's in their interests.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ) A few [selfishly farm them](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/may/17/pope-francis-attacks-cult-money) drawing strength, seeing that it's in their interest. A few [greedily tear down](https://i.pinimg.com/474x/ea/96/c4/ea96c4448dfc642e92096234d6f1134a--poetry-quotes-pope-francis.jpg) drawing strength, seeing it's in their interest. Those fearful join behind that strength. They seek to extend their time until destruction, and grow in hate to do so. They are [short sighted.](http://report.ipcc.ch/sr15/pdf/sr15_spm_final.pdf) Social Darwinism is [death](https://i.imgur.com/NxXHMXM.png), [harm](https://i.imgur.com/h4Jy2bU.png), [pain](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/26/while-rest-world-burned-billionaires-made-more-money-2017-any-other-year-history), and [trauma](https://i.imgur.com/BzzjKoP.png). Trumpism is blinded and looks to the past. Bernie has a vision of a future we can believe in.",Chartis,e8q9anm,SandersForPresident
"Much less than those that benefited. [Over 38,500 people are alive today](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2017/jun/27/bernie-sanders/bernie-sanders-projection-thousands-added-deaths-g/) because they weren't thrown off of the health care they had. And limiting that harm, pain, & trauma has [superb secondary benefits too.](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)  ",Chartis,e8qdxkx,SandersForPresident
">The ACA was a steaming pile of shit the Democrats pushed through to pat themselves on the back. But hey let’s just find out what’s in it after we pass it.

You should take a good hard look [why](https://www.healthinsurance.org/blog/2017/05/17/10-ways-the-gop-sabotaged-obamacare/) the ACA happened to be what it is.  
The GOP sabotaged the ACA from day one.",diquee,e8po215,SandersForPresident
"Of course it costs more on an individual market - im also assuming your family member didnt take advantage of the various tax rebates included in their plan? Blame your company, not the poor - don’t you see that this is another way they are dividing us?",gerbeci,e8pvs73,SandersForPresident
"Lol pushed through after 2+ years and 140+ committee meetings on the damn thing in which the GOP castrated it



You were told this by your parents or a talking head you trust, right?",revelatorchurch,e8pvt93,SandersForPresident
My Russian spidey senses are tingling,035036503530,e8prfv9,SandersForPresident
"Hi `President_Trump_2024`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9siv1o/-/e8pubc0/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e8q1fa2,SandersForPresident
This right here is the biggest false equivalency fallacy I’ve ever seen in the wild. ,035036503530,e8pregi,SandersForPresident
">You support slavery 

No one is saying healthcare workers shouldn't be compensated. So no, they don't support slavery.",WorldController,e8ppi6f,SandersForPresident
"You're no engineer



If any of your projects were funded on a state grant you're just a ""slave"" /s



Are you really this inept at critical thinking? Hey this is your high school calling, can we get your diploma back?",revelatorchurch,e8pvp4h,SandersForPresident
"Healthcare shouldn’t be an industry. Our health shouldn’t be funding a massive bureaucracy solely designed to keep us in corporate servitude. Everyone in the healthcare industry is profiting off of sickness and death, and you expect me to feel bad for them?",gerbeci,e8pvoxe,SandersForPresident
"He says on a device made by literal slaves, without a hint of self-awareness",BERNthisMuthaDown,e8q30n2,SandersForPresident
So everyone in any industry that you agree is a human right is a slave? ,Dead_Mullets,e8qbnod,SandersForPresident
That's the kind of thinking that got us here in the first place. Look forward. Think positive. And **VOTE**,Towns-a-Million,e8qaxi4,SandersForPresident
I'm already disappointed.,oldest_boomer_1946,e8qolp0,SandersForPresident
"I'd say get your priorities straight.
 
The first thing we've got to do is take care of the problems in the White House. Having control of one or two houses of Congress, that's the way we can tie Trump hands.
 
Once we take care of trump, then we can discuss the problems of the Democratic Party.",oldest_boomer_1946,e8qpbxf,SandersForPresident
"Then put in the work needed to reform, and don't hinder efforts in that regard.  

>We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  

>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  

>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

",Chartis,e8qfza9,SandersForPresident
Those are some of the biggest corporations in the world. Only a moron would argue they shouldn’t be taxed..,gerbeci,e8pvktg,SandersForPresident
"Its about that a lot of employees of those companies **must** use food-stamps.

You could argue that those companies get a part of their profits because their employees use food stamps.

So a kind of socialism is ok for big companies?

",obimk1,e8pu0um,SandersForPresident
"Wow you did an amazing job avoiding the question.

I wonder why. ",pedantic--asshole,e8qe0gt,SandersForPresident
">That's the kind of thinking that got us here in the first place. Look forward. Think positive. And **VOTE**

YES! We mustn't give up.",oldest_boomer_1946,e8qooeg,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8rqtib,SandersForPresident
Jesus that is messed up ,Towns-a-Million,e8qb1rt,SandersForPresident
Yep can’t argue with this.. ha,RootlessBoots,e8qmeaa,SandersForPresident
I gave an answer. Did you already know when you asked?,Chartis,e8qe4qs,SandersForPresident
One in three amazon employees in Arizona are on food stamps. Why should we be subsidizing corporate slavery?,gerbeci,e8s4w31,SandersForPresident
"You didn't give an answer at all, you just deflected the question and went back to your talking point. ",pedantic--asshole,e8qfecj,SandersForPresident
Less than those that benefited. But you didn't answer my question. Did you know the answer before you asked? I did get something wrong though. The number of lives saved is per year. So it's equivalent to stopping 9/11 every month. That's a yuge boon.  ,Chartis,e8qftry,SandersForPresident
"No, I don't know the answer, but I do know that a large number of people who don't have insurance now but did under Obama were forced to purchase health insurance against their will. Including those people in the number that are uninsured is being intentionally misleading.

But you keep using those people in your number because it's a more impressive number and you can pat yourself on the back instead of actually understanding the issue. ",pedantic--asshole,e8qhqda,SandersForPresident
"Their lives were still saved. And that provides rippling benefits. How do you know it's a large number? What do you consider to be a large number? Who deserves the pat on the back are Bernie and the millions of people who put in the successful effort to stop 32 million people being thrown off. Damned heroes, [every one.](https://media4.s-nbcnews.com/j/MSNBC/Components/Video/201707/f_la_mccain_vote_170728.760;428;7;70;5.jpg)",Chartis,e8qi64q,SandersForPresident
No their lives weren't saved... They were fine before and they are fine now. But you are trying to make it sound like they are all dead now because they made a decision based on their own situation and not what the government decided was best for them. ,pedantic--asshole,e8qkue3,SandersForPresident
">[Bernie Sanders' projection of 'thousands' of deaths from lost health coverage is well-supported](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2017/jun/27/bernie-sanders/bernie-sanders-projection-thousands-added-deaths-g/)

Also, you didn't answer either of my questions. ",Chartis,e8qlcvv,SandersForPresident
You've been dodging my questions the entire fucking time... I didn't come here for a healthcare debate I asked you a simple question that you've been avoiding literally the entire conversation. ,pedantic--asshole,e8qoj0a,SandersForPresident
"Shep Smith is a stellar journalist, and one of the last ones remaining at Fox news",Teiresias666,e8rvjtu,SandersForPresident
"Maryland 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://elections.maryland.gov/voting/early_voting.html): October 25-November 1, 2018 

[General Election](https://voterservices.elections.maryland.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration/InstructionsStep1): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8rx642,SandersForPresident
"If Ben Jealous didn't back away from the Bernicrat platform he'd have this race in the bag. Maryland is keyed for Democrats to win. Bernie set it up for him, but then Jealous made a big scene about not being a *fucking* socialist (his words) and bragging about being a venture capitalist. That hurt a lot of enthusiasm for him from Democrats and basically prevented him from winning this winnable race. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8sclpm,SandersForPresident
"I really was impressed with his detailed platform

phone banked for him in the primary",4now5now6now,e8ro4in,SandersForPresident
"> That hurt a lot of enthusiasm for him from Democrats and basically prevented him from winning this winnable race. 

I think the maryland political and media establishment (local papers, local news, local leaders) turning a blind eye and deaf ear to Jealous, and then hearing prominent Dem leaders saying ""I'm going to not vote in the Gov race"" (literally) ... I think that hurt Jealous. 


Or, that one thing he said that one time, which, apparently made such hay it made its way all the way to Norway...",sterile_in_Baltimore,e8sjj5e,SandersForPresident
Can't wait for stupid midterms to be over so that he can finally announce ,BopTheDrass,e8regpr,SandersForPresident
"What month will he announce? How long after Nov6th?

Do we have to wait til March or April of 2019?",4now5now6now,e8roamc,SandersForPresident
Why does he have to wait?,Dora_Milaje,e8rjg5r,SandersForPresident
If I had to guess I’d say late November into early December,Greg06897,e8rper7,SandersForPresident
"Secondary opinion to OP based off of usual Presidential candidates announcing: Probably Early March.

Though I'd LOVE if it was Nov or Dec.",MelGibsonDerp,e8rsscl,SandersForPresident
"So people and media discussion can focus on the midterms rather than 2020, so when 2018 is out of the way hopefully he will announce ASAP",BopTheDrass,e8rjmnv,SandersForPresident
Because if he announced now the entire media would collectively scream “Why are you distracting from the midterms!?”,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8rpksl,SandersForPresident
"With regard to campaign finance rules, by announcing in 2018 I initially thought that would allow Bernie to accept more max-out contributions because I thought the contribution limit was based on a per year basis (or per fiscal year or 12 month rolling period).  However, I just looked up contribution limits and the following source says the maximum contribution from an individual is based on ""per election"":

https://transition.fec.gov/info/contriblimitschart1718.pdf

The source shows other donors like PACs or committees can donate a certain amount ""per year"" so I'm guessing if you max out with a contribution of $2,700 in say 2018 you can't donate any more money all the way through 2020.  I'm guessing you can still buy shirts or other merchandise to help and of course you can still volunteer your time to help.",Antarctica-1,e8sonmg,SandersForPresident
":) yes that sounds about right. We will be going nuts waiting to hear by then
thanks",4now5now6now,e8ryvqf,SandersForPresident
As they say that we can't let trump distract us they then cover 24/7 how trump is trying to distract us with the whole immigrant thing. They know exactly what they are doing gotta get those clicks and views.,Butthole_Pucker217,e8shnrg,SandersForPresident
Strap in cause they are gonna throw everything they have at Bernie but we WON'T let them win.,TomBurcher,e8rxr0p,SandersForPresident
Jesus,Greg06897,e8ryhtx,SandersForPresident
It will be fun to watch the mass media mental breakdown once he wins.,BopTheDrass,e8spckm,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, I think Sanders is wrong on this one.  Thomas Jefferson had secret children with one of his slaves.   Not even Trump is at that level. ",mattibbals,e8rx08i,SandersForPresident
"Different time, different standards but I see your point. Trump would have been king slave owner if he lived back then though.",TomBurcher,e8rxpxy,SandersForPresident
Jefferson is actually one of the more woke presidents of that time period. I'd say the most bigoted one is Woodrow Wilson.,hueylongsgiantdong,e8twdsb,SandersForPresident
#WeAreHere to #EndFacism,Torcha,e8r0p25,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8qrq40,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8quh6c,SandersForPresident
"40% is very low but its at least double what it was in 2014, keep fighting!",TomBurcher,e8rm7g9,SandersForPresident
Too bad so many are swamped with studies and jobs. Old people turnout is so high because they have nothing better to do in their retirement. Election Day should be a national holiday.,BopTheDrass,e8ruv9x,SandersForPresident
"The only governor candidate in Ohio endorsing this point is the Green, so that is who got my vote. My line in the sand is not going to budge on this, DNC.",robotzor,e8r1qv3,SandersForPresident
"Ponies. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HSMGrKSUgj4

",sterile_in_Baltimore,e8sjxdl,SandersForPresident
"[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1057648982875353089)

* What’s Constitutional is what SCOTUS says is Constitutional, & there have been many cases in history of them wrongly interpreting the Constitution.

 Treat what Trump does as real. We do a massive disservice to his potential victims if we don’t fight discrimination w/ all we have.
",Chartis,e8sl2jd,SandersForPresident
"Washington 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://weiapplets.sos.wa.gov/MyVoteOLVR/MyVoteOLVR): October 29, 2018 

[General Election](https://weiapplets.sos.wa.gov/MyVote/#/login): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8rxpnq,SandersForPresident
"Linked article: https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2018/10/30/jobs-62-percent-fall-short-middle-class-standard-us/1809629002  

Study: https://www.thirdway.org/report/the-opportunity-index-ranking-opportunity-in-metropolitan-america",Chartis,e8r4phh,SandersForPresident
">As the American middle class continues to collapse, 40% of Americans lack $400 in disposable income to pay for an unexpected expense like a medical emergency or a car repair. 43% of households live paycheck to paycheck and can't afford to pay for their housing, food, child care, health care, transportation and their cell phone without going into debt. Further, about half of older Americans have no retirement savings and no idea how they will be able to retire in dignity. We must get our priorities right and create an economy that rebuilds the middle class and works for all of us, not just the wealthy and powerful.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1989530061101988)",Chartis,e8r64rn,SandersForPresident
Speaking as an interested Canadian I have to say how exciting it is to think that Bernie could replace Trump. Not sure it will happen but if it were to happen it would be the most satisfying thing to have ever happened.,MedVenligHilsen,e8r3b7z,SandersForPresident
"OR Candidate JD Scholten in running against 9 term incumbent

steve king who is more than a bigot.... JD is so close to beating king. JD is for medicare4 all, environment, education",4now5now6now,e8rn9uw,SandersForPresident
"Imagine the lead if Brent won this race, like Bernie advised. Davis isn't a great fit for the district. Hopefully, she can still pull it off but hurts to not be winning a winnable district. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8schtw,SandersForPresident
I think that is a different district,sasiralla,e8sd353,SandersForPresident
"Is a red rose a universal symbol for socialism? Just wondering since the biggest socialist party in Sweden has a red rose as a symbol. But all Swedish parties has flowers as a symbol, so I thought it was a swedish thing.",zroxix,e8r3nv6,SandersForPresident
My favorite part of their policy is where they mention in their constitution that they want to abolish profit. America wouldn't be a shithole if profit was abolished/outlawed.,unionssucktrustme,e8qbiv4,SandersForPresident
"Yep, specifically it is associated with democratic socialism (and sometimes social democracy in Europe)",upphiminn,e8rjmlu,SandersForPresident
"Gillum is a big deal for Bernie. There's a certain amount of ""Bernie vs Trump"" playing out in Florida and with that governors race and if Bernie's guy wins, that's a huge boon for progressives and Bernie in particular.",The_Popular_Populist,e8r1kwf,SandersForPresident
Bernie needs to undo the damage Hillary/Bloomberg/Whatshername did to Gillum (and Gillum did to himself by hobnobbing with them). ,BopTheDrass,e8rk5qh,SandersForPresident
"A gillum win would do the following that will benefit Florida progressives...many of them are happening RIGHT NOW.

Boost bill Nelson and destroying Rick Scott's political career(Rick Scott was ahead in every single poll before gillum, after gillum it became consistently likely that Nelson wins).

Kill a veteran republicans political career before it becomes a problem(desantis career will be pretty much over if he loses red Florida).


Weaken marco rubios chances...this is vital in turning Florida into a blue state treifica in the vein of California.


Revive the Florida democratic party(the Florida democratic party is now vibrant and more competent than ever).


",shadow-of-ungoliant,e8w20kb,SandersForPresident
"All public employees in Utah have an insurer that will fly and also drive to pick up prescriptions in Mexico! Also medical tourism is starting to creep into some insurance policies and that is for procedures, surgeries",4now5now6now,e8rp1v1,SandersForPresident
/u/Chartis - he’s everywhere,gideonvwainwright,e8qwotw,SandersForPresident
">Join Senator Sanders and Ben Jealous at the Bethesda Blues and Jazz Supper Club, Tuesday, October 30th. Doors open at 6:00pm; program begins at 6:45pm. Please arrive early, as RSVP does not guarantee entry. 

7719 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814

RSVP in tweet",gideonvwainwright,e8qwm81,SandersForPresident
"IMO he should do it when it gives him the best chance of winning in the considered opinion of his trusted council. The same as to selection of a Vice-Presidential candidate, though I see wisdom in teaming with Nina Turner or Tulsi Gabbard. At least for the next week I highly suggest that anytime this question pulls at our minds that we dig into the activism links on the sidebar to help make President Sanders more likely. For now here's some of the trend on [the matter:](https://i.redd.it/n3quxuteteu11.jpg)  

He's releasing [Where We Go From Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>If I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8rtkx6,SandersForPresident
"The general season for candidates to declare their candidacy is early 2019. Bernie announced on April 28th, 2015.

Personally, I like Nina Turner or Barbara Lee as progressive firebrands who could take up the mantle of a rare, hard-won progressive administration.

Tulsi Gabbard also makes sense and adds some valuable foreign policy experience. 

Often times, deals are made between candidates to step out of each other's way in the primaries, in exchange for positions in the administration. Such a deal with Elizabeth Warren could potentially occur.",WhiskeyInferno,e8rv9il,SandersForPresident
"I think Bernie should announce early so he can dominate the race from the start. As for the VP I think Tulsi Gabbard, Elizabeth Warren or Nina Turner are most likely.",TomBurcher,e8s0xbh,SandersForPresident
"I think when he announces will depend on what happens in the midterms.  If the Dems do very well seems to me he should announce soon after the midterms.  If things go badly, like they fail to take back the House somehow,  I think he might take some time to regroup.  You could also argue the opposite, that a disastrous midterm result would leave progressives and liberals desperate for some hope and leadership, and a good result might mean spending some time to build with the incoming progressives in Congress and see how things are shaping up.  All in all, I'd still say sooner is better than later and his hand may be forced by others—I'll bet on not too long after the midterms.  

For VP:  though he's in great shape for his age, Bernie may well be limited by age/health to a single term.  Even if not, he has to be thinking about it as a possibility.  I think he would need to consider someone who can run and win the presidency after him, that will advance his agenda and take a major leadership level for progressives at a global level.  I don't see him picking a VP candidate just to shore up some weaknesses politically.  I'm sure he's conscious of a pent up desire for female leadership, though, so I can hardly see him not picking a woman as VP.  For that reason, I see some other Senate allies like Jeff Merkley and Sherrod Brown as most likely out.

While Elizabeth Warren is more market-oriented in her politics, and not a Democratic Socialist, she is his closest ally and collaborator in the Senate.  She's also a little old to serve as VP plus one or more terms as President, and she's another white New Englander (though with OK roots),  but I think he would trust her to carry forward after him and is his most likely and arguably best pick.   Plus he may need her supporters to get behind him to finish first.

Also, I think Warren's going to run but underwhelm in the early states, consistently falling just below 15% viability, and I see her dropping out after Super Tuesday without a whole lot of delegates (she'll do OK in caucus states, NH, and MA).  I'm guessing it's gonna be Bernie and Biden top 2, with Harris at about 20% to round out the last three standing, and could very likely end with no candidate earning a majority of delegates.  It could come down to some horse-trading for votes on a second ballot, so we'd see how that plays out.   I can't see Bernie picking Kamala Harris (too centrist) unless he's forced to in order to garner votes in a second round situation.

&#x200B;

Some others:

Nina Turner:  Obviously close ally but maybe not enough experience at a national or international level

Rep Tulsi Gabbard:  I don't see it.  Problematic support for Hindu nationalists in India and at least appearing to defend Syria's Assad

Rep Barbara Lee:  Fantastic progressive, potentially problematic backstory with Black Panther Party, less international experience, I think

Rep Pramila Jayapal:  not US born citizen, can't become president, out

Rep Raul Grijalva:  male, old, maybe not in great health so less likely though a strong progressive

Rep Ro Khanna: young, progressive, close ally in Congress.  Maybe, but male, also just a soon-to-be-second term Rep.  

I could also see Bernie picking an indigenous running mate like:

Winona LaDuke:  Indigenous/environmental activist.  Ran for VP in 1996 and 2000 on Green Party ticket with Ralph Nader, actually earned 1 Electoral College vote for VP in 2016 election.    I could just see Bernie making a pick like this.

Paulette Jordan: Idaho state rep and gov candidate.  Would be a ""dark horse"" pick, no national experience yet, but she's charismatic, progressive (I think more than she shows in red-state Idaho), and from rural America

Curious to hear from others...

  

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",bryanlandia,e8syolt,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders is quite weak on foreign policy. I think this was the biggest issue that the MSM exploited in the primaries. For that major reason I think a Sanders/Gabbard ticket would quite nicely back fill this void. 

&#x200B;

I think he should announce around the same time he did last year. It's better to have the new 2018 congress in and settled first IMHO. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",GangstaRIB,e8uspf1,SandersForPresident
"Hilda Solis all the way. She was first elected to Congress in 2000, after defeating a Centrist incumbent in the Democratic primary. She had a pretty solid record in Congress (supported M4A before it was popular), and served as Obama's Labor Secretary. She ended up resigning after his first term but (just my guess) that was probably because she was too effective at holding CEOs accountable.
Her record is a working class record. Also, the symbolism of a Jew and a Latina running against a guy who's supported by Nazis and began his last campaign by demonizing ""Mexicans"" would be very powerful.",N0000b4Lyfe,e8ruk42,SandersForPresident
"Sherrod Brown would make the most sense, Sherrod is not a friend of wall street. Someone should make some odds.",vman_isyourhero,e8rvcde,SandersForPresident
"I've wondered about this. Would it be a good move to declare your candidacy before anyone else so as to scare off potential primary opponents and keep the field small, or would it be better to let the field develop to get a sense of it and then declare your candidacy in a ""BAH' GAWD IT'S BERNIE SANDERS!"" sort of moment?

VP doesn't matter unless he actually wins the nomination. I like Tulsi the most and as a potential heir, but she has some real baggage that could be used against her in a general election whether you want to admit it or not.",stargrove88,e8sf06i,SandersForPresident
"Bernie/ Tulsi all the way. Many progressive Democrats, especially women, love Warren. To challenge that energy and that need to finally have the first woman president will require powerful women out in front of Bernie’s campaign. He should be introduced by Tulsi or Nina at every rally. Most people, including those passionate about Warren, don’t know Tulsi yet. And people are going LOVE Tulsi when they get to know her.",sparassis,e8sgw9e,SandersForPresident
"Exactly. Kamala has the resume being a former prosecutor, female, minority, and youth on her side. Presumably she could run at the top of the ticket in 2024 (Bernie would be 83 years old). 

Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris is duo even the corporate media outlets would get behind ",thatguy201717,e8sj1d8,SandersForPresident
Well argued ,lapacheco7,e8wditn,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris.

Before that Dems must replace Pelosi and Shumar. Freaking terrible duo ",thatguy201717,e8rznwm,SandersForPresident
Spring. Merkley or Harris. ,llamasonic,e8rzib1,SandersForPresident
"Nina Turner is the best choice. We need the VP to be someone we know is a Bernie protege, who will continue to live out his message. Nina has been a loyal Bernie supporter and deserves to be VP over any other standard crook politician who looks at being VP as being a way to get clout, not as a way to support Bernie and help the country. ",DrCarsonsCure,e8scw20,SandersForPresident
Let’s hope Liz takes a deal or Bernie demolishes her early. I hope he annihilates everyone so that they realize his power in the first few primary states!!!!,lapacheco7,e8rwlhg,SandersForPresident
"Kamala's record on Wall Street and criminal justice is awful and would induce apathy among independents and traditional non-voters. Elizabeth Warren should be Treasury Secretary, not VP. 

Hilda Solis is the best choice. Great record. Lots of experience.",N0000b4Lyfe,e8ta24n,SandersForPresident
We don’t know who she is though.,lapacheco7,e8rwjts,SandersForPresident
Sherrod was not loyal to Bernie in 2016. We need a VP we can trust. ,DrCarsonsCure,e8scsw9,SandersForPresident
Do you want a duo that corporate media outlets would get behind?,N0000b4Lyfe,e8t9u3o,SandersForPresident
"Not Harris, not after she let Mnuchin walk after he illegally foreclosed on people then he donated to her campaign as a thank you.",TomBurcher,e8s3l66,SandersForPresident
"People justifiably don't like Harris, but I would not be shocked at all if Bernie got her to sign on. She ticks a tonne of boxes, including crucially creating 'unity' and making it difficult for the establishment/neoliberals to attack the ticket.",agbfreak,e8s4emd,SandersForPresident
"Except that the highest office she's held is in the State Senate. Check out Hilda Solis:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilda_Solis",N0000b4Lyfe,e8tb28b,SandersForPresident
"I love Barbara Lee, but her no vote on AUMF (admirable as it was) kind of torpedoes her chances for national office. Nina Turner is an ok organizer and a great speaker, but every time I've seen her go head to head with someone in anything resembling a debate I've been really unimpressed with her policy knowledge and arguing skills.
Gabbard's relationship with Assad is sketchy to say the least and Warren shouldn't settle for VP. She would be way more effective in a role like Treasury Secretary.
The best choice, imo, is Hilda Solis. She doesn't have a lot of name recognition now, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.",N0000b4Lyfe,e8tanpy,SandersForPresident
"*You *didn't.
Now you do.",N0000b4Lyfe,e8rwqfv,SandersForPresident
"I don't expect a midwest senator to be loyal to Bernie but be loyal to the policies. He dislikes wall street and so does Bernie. They are a perfect match for that plus their senate seats wouldn't be up for election, just in case. ",vman_isyourhero,e8szaml,SandersForPresident
I could care less about corporate media or corporate Democrats. We need to get corporate Pac money out of politics. What’s your preference? ,thatguy201717,e8ty6t4,SandersForPresident
"You just said Sanders/Harris would be a ""duo even the corporate media outlets would get behind."" I would prefer a duo that the corporate media outlets would not get behind. Sanders/Solis 2020!",N0000b4Lyfe,e8wd01e,SandersForPresident
Hopefully Amlo and Corbyn get involved!,Zepherx22,e8o5qyr,SandersForPresident
"r/GlobalProgress will be tracking this development.

>It is important that we understand that what we are seeing now in the world is the rise of a new authoritarian axis:  

* Donald Trump and the right-wing movement 
* Jair Bolsonaro “The Donald Trump of Brazil” 
* Saudi Arabia is a despotic dictatorship. Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman is very close with Presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner
* Israel’s Netanyahu government  
* Russian President Vladimir Putin whose intervention in our 2016 presidential election Trump still fails to fully admit. He really doesn’t understand what has happened, or he is under Russian influence 
* Orban in Hungary
* Erdogan in Turkey
* Duterte in the Philippines 
* North Korea’s Kim Jong Un  
* United Arab Emirates' undemocratic regime  
* Qatar's undemocratic regime  


>In order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism, we need an international movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity, security and dignity for all people, and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists, not only in wealth but in political power.

>We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a global order based on human solidarity, an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity, that we all want our children to grow up healthy, to have a good education, have decent jobs, drink clean water, breathe clean air and to live in peace. Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who shares these values, and who are fighting for a better world.

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other. We know that those forces work together across borders. We must do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)

>We must develop an international movement that takes on the greed and ideology of the billionaire class and leads us to a world of economic, social and environmental justice.

>A new and international progressive movement must commit itself to tackling structural inequality both between and within nations. Such a movement must overcome “the cult of money” and “survival of the fittest” mentalities that the pope warned against. It must support national and international policies aimed at raising standards of living for poor and working-class people. We must rein in corporate power and prevent the environmental destruction of our planet as a result of climate change.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Jan 14^th '18](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/jan/14/power-billionaires-bernie-sanders-poverty-life-expectancy-climate-change)  

>It is a global issue, one that reaches across oceans and continents as oligarchy, authoritarianism, and kleptocracy spread from country to country, and democratic institutions fight for their survival.

>In order to fight this trend, we need to strengthen the global coalition of progressive democrats. While authoritarians promote division and hatred, we will promote unity, inclusion, and an agenda based on economic, social, racial, and environmental justice. Internationally, we must have the courage to take on the global oligarchy and bring power to the many, not the few. This world belongs to all of us.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 21^st '18](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)

>We will be safer when people throughout the world get to know each other, and understand the common humanity that they have... let us try to destroy the hatred that exists throughout the world based on fear and ignorance by allowing people to get to know one another.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/7RVIdUSuVbE?t=1125)

>It makes us safer when we reach out to people throughout the world in ways that bring us together... We are a safer country and a safer planet when we do our best to rid the ignornace and hatred which exists all over the world. Find and discover we have a common humanity... we have a lot more in common than we have in opposition. We can reduce hatred and bigotry in that way. Dialog should be taking place between people throughout the world at the grassroots level. 

-Bernie Sanders, [June 18^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0NJvL4iLUPI&feature=youtu.be&t=1004)",Chartis,e8obg7r,SandersForPresident
"Not sure if this was a completely balanced piece. Yanis is/was a professor of economics, and this isn’t mentioned at all (not hard to mention his title) - I would bet that everything he is saying is based on facts and he would have good quality evidence to back himself. Therefore unlike some ideologues and party hacks, he has a serious commitment to truth and evidence based policy, compared to many conservatives (and many corrupted corporatist democrats) who don’t. 

He is also (obviously) a writer - his latest book looks very interesting, as per this [Democracy Now interview](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=UavI2fW_6LA)",JAFO_JAFO,e8o7rr0,SandersForPresident
"What progressive subreddit communities represent countries?  

r/OnGuardForThee is Canadian  
r/SandersForPresident is American",Chartis,e8oh26z,SandersForPresident
Yanis also had a blog at Valve for a while: http://blogs.valvesoftware.com/economics/it-all-began-with-a-strange-email/,austin_cody,e8okq1t,SandersForPresident
"Yanis’s book « Adults in the Room » is really good, highly recommended",kultronvii,e8o98bv,SandersForPresident
"Good, because it sure seems like that's what the fascists are doing.",antillian,e8ovbg0,SandersForPresident
Bring in Jeremy Corbyn as well!,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e8oavbw,SandersForPresident
Lol i thought this was going to be some breitbart nonsense about soros and bernie getting together,petcasola,e8ofbcm,SandersForPresident
Get him to the Greek!,mandy009,e8olumy,SandersForPresident
please come to brazil,MeshesAreConfusing,e8o9yib,SandersForPresident
"I think this will really blow up to be [that picturesque image of all the good coming together](https://thumbs.dreamstime.com/z/people-around-world-24527810.jpg) (to fight climate change, fascism, etc and implement a consumer and worker friendly change). Or like something similar to [the Rainbow Warrior Prophecy](https://www.ancient-origins.net/myths-legends/warriors-rainbow-prophecy-001577)...

> One day... there would come a time, when the earth being ravaged and polluted, the forests being destroyed, the birds would fall from the air, the waters would be blackened, the fish being poisoned in the streams, and the trees would no longer be, mankind as we would know it would all but cease to exist   
>  
>**There will come a day when people of all races, colors, and creeds will put aside their differences. They will come together in love, joining hands in unification, to heal the Earth and all Her children.** They will move over the Earth like a great Whirling Rainbow, bringing peace, understanding and healing everywhere they go. Many creatures thought to be extinct or mythical will resurface at this time; the great trees that perished will return almost overnight. All living things will flourish, drawing sustenance from the breast of our Mother, the Earth.  

As an aside, there's an awesome Jungian book I recommend called The Vision Thing. 

Near the beginning of the book, it discussed the age-old tension between ""the one"" and ""the many"", which I think parallels a lot of what is being recognized by the Rainbow Warrior prophecy. 

The most ideal outcome is a synthesis of the positive aspects of the ""many"" (diversity) and the ""one"" (integration) - where indigenous, separate, and unique cultures can coexist in some sort of differentiated whole.

However, there are shadow sides to each of those. The darker side of the ""many"" is disintegration (like ""Balkanization"" - a breakdown of civil society on a planetary scale; fragmentation of families, breakdown of nations, rise of tribalism, fundamentalism, and factionalism at every level of social organization; and the darker side for ""the one"" is mass homogenization dominated by a global market mentality that reduces all human differences to a ""bottom line"" formula (the bleak vision of a global ""franchise"") and severe political correctness.

These recurrent tensions between diversity/disintegration and integration/homogenization are about to be inspected in the coming years, in part due to this ""new international leftist movement"" being formed, as well as the counter movement and these fascist leaders/dictators being elected.

Another thing discussed in the book is a prediction that religious chauvinism and ethnic hatred will replaced by the desire to become rich. However, IMO there doesn't need to be any replacement; religious chauvinism, ethnic hatred, and greed can all fuel each other. 

It's exciting times indeed. ",Bear_jams,e8of6po,SandersForPresident
Holy shit.,Zefferis,e8ol60g,SandersForPresident
"This seems like 67 year old news. The organisation already exists: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_International

But of course, we need to support the capitalist newspaper by pretending news are news and not ""past"".....",gayfish90,e8onaw4,SandersForPresident
Pls Corbyn,sam1405,e8orsfj,SandersForPresident
Lol,djr0549,e8p6cms,SandersForPresident
"As long as they focus on how to help and what their beliefs for the American people are I'm all for it. 

Too often do new parties and political individuals resort to just bashing others on their morals and beliefs.

 Bernie has never strayed from his beliefs and what he wants to do for the American people. But I'm afraid anybody brought on might not be able to do the same. ",Sultor,e8omlnn,SandersForPresident
"The guy (Greek guy whose name I can't rem how to spell) has a massive ego, but is spot on in just about anything I've heard him say. ",justsomeblahblahguy,e8p7rek,SandersForPresident
I don’t like the term Leftist. Progressive is more accurate. Leftist has this communist connotation and right wingers use leftist as a kind of slur. ,designOraptor,e8oer57,SandersForPresident
Isnt greece bankrupt ?,thefunke,e8ofiji,SandersForPresident
"Okay, so, Russia. Got it. ",violetcw1,e8p6vfe,SandersForPresident
"Won't go anywhere.

Also for a second I thought I read Greek the streamer. Now that would work.",OverPoop,e8pd7xa,SandersForPresident
This guy shat on the French equivalent of Bernie and went on to support the Hillary equivalent during our presidential election.,HHWKUL,e8osfta,SandersForPresident
not a good idea ... Good luck defending Bernie to your 'moderate' or conservative friends ...,numeraire,e8p5afr,SandersForPresident
Leftist huh? No thanks,Injunjo3,e8op1in,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ofzcm,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8ovdet,SandersForPresident
I approve of this but its a little too late. The global far right has taken power in critical areas of the planet. If sanders wasnt so docile and obedient during the primaries and spoke to the fact that the primaries were rigged we wouldnt be facing imminent climate change and a resurgent global right that is incapable of dealing with climate change... ,Light_of_Lucifer,e8oga0i,SandersForPresident
"[So far](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/26/sanders-and-varoufakis-announce-alliance-craft-common-blueprint-international-new) this initiative of worldwide rational humanism is being spearheaded by [Bernie Sanders](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6) (USA) & [Yanis Varoufakis](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/ng-interactive/2018/sep/13/our-new-international-movement-will-fight-rising-fascism-and-globalists) (Greece).

Almost certain to be invited for affiliation are [Jeremy Corbyn](https://twitter.com/jeremycorbyn/status/1045286413871271941) (UK), [Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador](https://www.telesurtv.net/english/news/Jeremy-Corbyn-Bernie-Sanders-Greet-Mexico-President-Elect-20180703-0014.html) (Mexico), & [Michael Higgins](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/irish-presidential-election-2018-michael-d-higgins-who-incumbent-profile-ireland-a8600651.html) (Ireland).

Perhaps [Evo Morales](https://youtu.be/sTfTabMRRpw?t=18) (Bolivia), [Lula da Silva](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6) (Brazil), [Jorge Bergoglio](https://berniesanders.com/urgency-moral-economy-reflections-anniversary-centesimus-annus/) (Vatican City), Jean-Luc Melenchon (France), Jacinda Ardern (New Zealand), and [Nikki Ashton](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CW241jSUEAU8LIL.jpg) (Canada) are possibilities.",Chartis,e8obpup,SandersForPresident
This guy Bernies!  ,desolation-row,e8pg853,SandersForPresident
Please don't call him the Donald Trump of Brasil. That is misleading and just a huge understatement.,6_P,e8pstkr,SandersForPresident
I'm so glad that the authoritarian axis didn't include Venezuela.  ,IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8opiw8,SandersForPresident
"If you are interested to learn what happened in Greece and the EU, I highly recommend Varoufakis book ""Adults in the Room"". It's not only informative but also a real political thriller. For background information about the flaws in the European Union's design his previous book ""And The Weak Suffer What They Must"" is a must read. ",horstenporst,e8pp2v2,SandersForPresident
I personally wouldn’t trust a Greek Economist.,Kailu,e8oa94t,SandersForPresident
He actually managed Valve games' economies.,LV1024,e8p75th,SandersForPresident
">A member of the Socialist International (SI) from its founding in 1982, the [DSA](http://www.dsausa.org/) voted to leave SI in August 2017 over the SI's acceptance of what the DSA perceived as neoliberal economic policies.  

-Wikipedia | [source](http://www.leftvoice.org/DSA-Votes-for-BDS-Reparations-and-Out-of-the-Socialist-International)",Chartis,e8ooe00,SandersForPresident
"Is it a good idea to let your political opponents and let's face it, enemies, dictate the way we use words?  Conservatives use Progressive with plenty of contempt and misinformation as well.  Gay used to be a slur.  But members of that community refused to let their enemies define them and they took it back.  The conservatives handed us Socialist back on a silver platter; we can take back Leftist.",ManlyBeardface,e8oi0yc,SandersForPresident
"lefists were on the front lines during civil rights, labor, and womens' suffrage movements.

leftists are why we have social security, medicare, labor laws, and environmental laws. Please don't run away from the term leftist and pretend our contributions to America don't exist.

And what is wrong with communists? Not all communists blindly support the USSR and authoritarian countries. There are a lot of communists who support a democratic economic system.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8onxpu,SandersForPresident
"I feel that progressive has more of a social rather than an economic connotation, whereas with socialist or leftist the economic position is clear (this is not a claim that the social aspects are less important, though.)

Progressive can include everything from liberals with heavily left social views (""what we really need is more minority and lgbt billionaires!"") , to social democrats, to moderate democratic socialists. 

Leftist usually indicates the hard left wing of the social democrats and points further left.

If we want to push our economic program, progressive probably isn't enough. Socialist and leftist are.",Mardoniush,e8rvtj1,SandersForPresident
"Greece wouldn't be bankrupt if they were outside the EU and had a sovereign currency.

Greece's dependency on the EU has eliminated their ability to do deficit spending. The EU imposes austerity on poorer European countries to force them to cut their social programs which deepens any economic crisis.

The scheme which allowed [Greece to borrow money for deficit spending relied on Wall Street predatory lending](https://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/14/business/global/14debt.html?pagewanted=1&hp).

So the story of Greece's bankruptcy isn't one of government spending run amok. It's story of economic power houses in the EU and wall street crushing weaker economies in the EU for more profits. If the greece government is guilty of anything, it's that they trusted the EU and wall street far too much. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8op0xm,SandersForPresident
"I mean, implying that everyone in Greece must have no financial sense because of the country's bankruptcy is like implying every American denies climate change just because Trump pulled us out of the Paris agreements.

It's possible to be sane despite your government being run by idiots.",Riaayo,e8og4pe,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8p6bsh,SandersForPresident
"Read his books to find out why.

 His party tried to turn the economy around by cutting austerity and re-negotiating the loans to provide Keynesian stimulus, but the EU crushed them by threatening sudden removal from the Euro, even as they knew their actions would destroy any chance of recovery.",Mardoniush,e8rvyez,SandersForPresident
"Uhh no, I voted for Bernie but it would’ve made things worse because by the time it was reported that the primary was basically controlled by Clinton the entire time, it was essentially over, and he endorsed Clinton to try and beat Trump. He would’ve split the party even more so instead of focusing on coming together and beating the GOP. Also your claim that we wouldn’t be facing climate change if he had simply been angrier at the DNC during the primaries makes no sense.

It’s not too late. You can go ahead and be negative and lay down but there are a lot of people who see hope in this and will put effort into it. There is still time to make a difference.",lalaohhi,e8oy931,SandersForPresident
">we wouldnt be facing imminent climate change

So if one man did something different 2.5 years ago the last 150 years of industrialization and corporate malfeasance would have been erased?  


>  a resurgent global right 

That has been gathering its power for over 40 years.",ManlyBeardface,e8oia2z,SandersForPresident
"How legit is AMLO? Is he an actual Corbyn/Sanders-style progressive, or just another Lula-type faux-left populist, yearning to merge with the estabilished political elites?",MeshesAreConfusing,e8ohmbn,SandersForPresident
Lula will be in prison for years if he's not executed. He's not joining.,wannafrickfrack,e8oes5j,SandersForPresident
I'll do it for Canada. Just wait for the billboards.,whatwatwhutwut,e8paby6,SandersForPresident
Bergoglio certainly not. He isn't even allowed to join any political groups. Also he doesn't fit anywhere on the left-right spectrum,dsguzbvjrhbv,e8ozr4f,SandersForPresident
You know literally nothing about the situation in Greece then. Varoufakis came in after Greece’s economy collapsed and was virtually ignored by the Greek prime minister. He has done nothing to impact the Greek economy.,BlazingChickenTrail,e8obdne,SandersForPresident
Good points. I may have to reconsider. ,designOraptor,e8pd586,SandersForPresident
"It’s about messaging. If there’s a better word that doesn’t distract from your messaging then use it. The right uses messaging to their advantage with their echo chamber. Leftist seems militant, but Progressive seems more forward thinking. It’s just my two cents. ",designOraptor,e8oq86v,SandersForPresident
"> implying that everyone in Greece must have no financial sense because of the country's bankruptcy is like implying every American denies climate change just because Trump pulled us out of the Paris agreements.

You are technically correct, but speaking as someone who is Greek, that implication would not be too far from the actual truth.  In the case of Greece, a big chunk of the population was complicit in the country's bankruptcy and ongoing political corruption. We like to blame the politicians, but if we're honest, we must share part of the blame as well. ",jmhimara,e8oi1w4,SandersForPresident
I didnt imply that.,thefunke,e8ognkb,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8snrkg,SandersForPresident
"https://www.telesurtv.net/english/news/Jeremy-Corbyn-Bernie-Sanders-Greet-Mexico-President-Elect-20180703-0014.html:

>U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders and the leader of the British Labour Party Jeremy Corbyn were some of the high-profile progressives who congratulated Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  

“Today is a wonderful day for Mexico. A new page in the history of Mexico is turned today. The landslide victory of the new president-elect of Mexico Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador gives new hope to the people of Mexico and to all those around the world demanding societies that work for the many, not just the few. I wish I could have joined the crowds packed into the Zocalo last night in Mexico City to celebrate this historic moment. We can bring a voice to the poor and marginalized, we can bring change, we can win. Today is a new beginning. As we build for the future we must also remember and secure justice for those who died during those elections” 

>said Corbyn in reference to the many candidates, politicians and citizens who were killed during the campaign period. Lopez Obrador, or[ AMLO, and Corbyn are reported to be personal friends and have participated together in political conferences and seminars.](https://www.telesurtv.net/__export/1530631729116/sites/telesur/img/news/2018/07/03/corbyn_and_amlo.jpeg_1718483346.jpeg) They have also enjoyed holidays together, as seen in several pictures they have taken in the UK and Tabasco, AMLO's home state.

“Congratulations to Andres Manuel López Obrador, the newly elected president of Mexico. Now is the time to stand up to Trump's divisiveness and xenophobia and create a continent which brings countries together to focus on economic, social, racial and environmental justice.”

>Along with his post, Sanders shared an article which calls Lopez Obrador “Mexico's 'Bernie Sanders'” and describes him as “anti-Trump.”


edit: fixed link
",Chartis,e8oij67,SandersForPresident
"Executed. For “owning” a fucking condo. That he didn’t stay at. Bolsonaro terrifies me. 
He is going to ravage both the rainforest and all innocent life associated with it rapidly thru privatizing it, and then carte Blanche and getting rid of Congress. Strap in. There is a lot of stupid people in brazil that thought this religious nut is sane. ",Snuffaluffakuss,e8ofjkg,SandersForPresident
Executed? What are you smoking?,MeshesAreConfusing,e8ohtuw,SandersForPresident
"* [Health](https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/1055421214129377280) is not a consumer good, but a universal right: let us unite our efforts so that health services are available to all.  
  
* [Working](https://www.cssr.org.au/justice_matters/dsp-default.cfm?loadref=659) for a just distribution of the fruits of the earth and human labour is not mere philanthropy. It is a moral obligation.  
  
* [Poverty](https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/931137278839103490) is not an accident. It has causes that must be recognized and removed for the good of so many of our brothers and sisters.   

* [The](https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/831843001412358144) throwaway culture is not of Jesus. The other is my brother, beyond every barrier of nationality, social extraction or religion.  

* [global](https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/pope-francis-changes-catholic-church-teaching-to-say-death-penalty-is-inadmissible/2018/08/02/0d69ef5e-9647-11e8-80e1-00e80e1fdf43_story.html) abolition of the death penalty... society can only benefit from the rehabilitation of those convicted of crimes.”  

* [A](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/feb/08/pope-francis-walls-bridges-donald-trump) Christian can never say: I’ll make you pay for that.’ Never! That is not a Christian gesture. An offense is overcome with forgiveness, by living in peace with everyone... A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian.

* [How](https://twitter.com/Pontifex/status/832930172579876866) often in the Bible the Lord asks us to welcome migrants and foreigners, reminding us that we too are foreigners! 

* [be](https://edition.cnn.com/2016/04/08/europe/vatican-pope-family/) more accepting of gays and lesbians, divorced Catholics and other people 

* [The flag](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2016/0416/What-does-Pope-Francis-say-about-Bernie-Sanders) of the poor is Christian. Poverty is the center of the Gospel. The poor are at the center of the Gospel.  

---  

* [Pope](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2015/0924/Pope-Francis-speech-to-Congress-both-moral-and-political) Francis' speech to Congress: both moral and political   

* [The](https://berniesanders.com/urgency-moral-economy-reflections-anniversary-centesimus-annus/) Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences  


* [how](http://time.com/4296737/heres-what-bernie-sanders-and-pope-francis-talked-about/) thankful he was of his words and that Sen. Sanders had come and accepted the invitation to the Vatican to come and speak.   

* [We](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n3AbxWaTDEo) have to work with people when we can work with them. His leadership in terms of the need to create a moral economy, the need to make sure we transform our energy system has been extraordinary",Chartis,e8p21eh,SandersForPresident
Lol,Kailu,e8objao,SandersForPresident
"It's about doing what you think is right as part of a broader movement. Sanders could have ran away from the word socialism, but instead he embraced and defended it. Socialism is no longer a bad word and we can now talk about left-ist policies.

Our goal is not to just win for the sake of winning. It's to move the overtone to the left and redefine our country.

",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8or5x1,SandersForPresident
"From how it was explained to me by a bartender near Souda Bay the corruption ran from the top of the government all the way down to low level government workers and the people who utilized the corruption to their advantage.

It was so bad ""that's just the way things worked"". This was quite a time back though when there were Neo Nazis trying to weasel their way into the government if that helps for a time line. I believe it was around the time their economic issues were just coming to the world stage in a big way, 2012 or 13. And it was just a barside discussion with one man.",Shift84,e8p5lrt,SandersForPresident
"Economist Paul Krugman wrote, ""What we’re basically looking at ... is a balance of payments problem, in which capital flooded south after the creation of the euro, leading to overvaluation in southern Europe"" and ""In truth, this has never been a fiscal crisis at its root; it has always been a balance of payments crisis that manifests itself in part in budget problems, which have then been pushed onto the center of the stage by ideology.""

The introduction of the euro reduced trade costs among Euro countries, increasing overall trade volume. Labor costs increased more (from a lower base) in peripheral countries such as Greece relative to core countries such as Germany, eroding Greece's competitive edge. As a result, Greece's trade defecit rose significantly.

Both the Greek trade and budget defecits increased from below 5% of GDP in 1999 to peak around 15% of GDP during the crisis. A major driver of the investment inflow was Greece's membership in the EU and the Eurozone. Greece was perceived as a higher credit risk alone than it was as a member of the Eurozone, which implied investors felt the EU would bring discipline to its finances and support Greece in the event of problems.

As the American Great Recession spread to Europe, the amount of funds lent from the European core countries to the peripheral countries such as Greece began to decline. Simultaneously, reports in 2009 of Greek fiscal mismanagement and deception increased borrowing costs; the combination meant Greece could no longer borrow to finance its trade and budget defecits affordably.

A country facing a ""sudden stop"" in private investment and a high (local currency) debt load typically allows its currency to depreciate to encourage investment and to pay back the debt in cheaper currency. This was not possible while Greece remained on the Euro. Instead, to become more competitive, Greek wages fell nearly 20% from mid-2010 to 2014. This significantly reduced income and GDP, resulting in a severe recession, decline in tax receipts and a significant rise in the debt-to-gdp ratio. Unemployment reached nearly 25%, from below 10% in 2003. Significant government spending cuts helped the Greek government return to a primary budget surplus by 2014.",Stubborn_Outlier,e8uip3e,SandersForPresident
"Thanks mate, this is very uplifting.",MeshesAreConfusing,e8oo2b9,SandersForPresident
"He never owned or stayed at that condo. He was convicted on the basis of a single witness, someone who got a deal for pleading guilty for an unrelated crime and testifying against Lula.",lovely_sombrero,e8oinhh,SandersForPresident
"We don't know what is going to happen, and stating our fears as prophecy serves no purpose beyond giving company to our misery.

Meet Brazilian progressives, give them hope and support, distribute information, help the world.  If everything goes to shit, use it as the fertilizer for the next step forward.  Giving up is suicide.  Despair is pretense.  Hope is the only thing that will keep humanity and innumerable endangered species and habitats alive.",Xeuton,e8oolhs,SandersForPresident
There's a lot of stupid people everywhere...,wannafrickfrack,e8ohdjt,SandersForPresident
"Bolsonaro wants to wipe out indigenous, ""reds"", everyone he sees as a threat. Lula would have easily beaten him in a fair election, it's not outside the realm of possibility ",SquanchyParty,e8olov1,SandersForPresident
"If you don't think a fascist will execute his political opponents, then I'd ask you the same question.",wannafrickfrack,e8olvca,SandersForPresident
he was born in greece spent majority of his life in academia and only was asked back to greece one a leftist won. he had no skin in the game to be accused of being a real greek. he is more of international community academic. ,fiddel_fabulous,e8ofrek,SandersForPresident
"You make a good point but Sanders made sure that he was using the words democratic socialism which is vastly different. I just don’t like the term leftist just like (as a redhead) I don’t like to be called a ginger. Is it a big deal? Not really, but it kinda is though. ",designOraptor,e8pct6b,SandersForPresident
"> the corruption ran from the top of the government all the way down to low level government workers and the people who utilized the corruption to their advantage.

That sentence pretty much sums it up. But the issues started way before 2012-13, and the corruption was present long before that. Certainly long before there were any Neo-Nazis in the parliament (the Golden Dawn party). They were a consequence of the economic hardships (just like actual Nazis in the 30s). ",jmhimara,e8pd0vn,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8uz6ce,SandersForPresident
That’s a really nice and solid mindset. I’ve seen a couple like it recently on different subjects but your formulation resonates a lot with me.,ArpanetNightdrive,e8pe1ly,SandersForPresident
"I’m not a progressive, but this was beautifully written. Take my upvote 🙂",HumblerSloth,e8pg689,SandersForPresident
"Don't be ridiculous. I'm well aware he is a fascist, and I'm well aware of the possibility of a soft coup coming from him, akin to something like Putin's Russia or Maduro's Venezuela. But it's nonsensical to drop ""oh and he might execute the most popular politician in the history of Brazil since the redemocratization"" so casually. Not even the most conspiratory, fringe leftist newspapers here in Brazil entertain the possibility that Bolsonaro will fucking *execute* Lula. ",MeshesAreConfusing,e8oo9e5,SandersForPresident
The reason why no one takes you guys seriously is you downvote clear jokes,Kailu,e8ohdgw,SandersForPresident
"I don't need to respond to individual arguments to refute the statement below. 

>Absolutely not. I have a masters in finance and a minor in economics. Numerous factors of their economy tanked them. The most important was that they created a massive welfare state that was completely unsustainable.


Absolutely not? Your irrelevant finance degree and illusory minor in economics have no merit in this conversation. The most important factor was a massive welfare state? According to who? ",Stubborn_Outlier,e8v35tz,SandersForPresident
You've obviously never ready anything Bolsonaro has said.,KurtFF8,e8pd4e2,SandersForPresident
"First of all, I didn't say he would execute. You might wanna reread my post. Second, it's not it of the realm of possibility. ",wannafrickfrack,e8oq0zp,SandersForPresident
>let me just pop into this political discussion and drop a really hacky joke and act all surprised when i realize nobody wants to deal with a clown right now,FlyLikeATachyon,e8oltli,SandersForPresident
/S if you joke as i cannot see your rat face to clear all doubts your indents.,fiddel_fabulous,e8ojnm3,SandersForPresident
"Wasn’t funny regardless. This happens to be a serious discussion and the ‘greek economy lol’ joke is actually a real talking point that will brought up about this, and it needs to be debunked",lalaohhi,e8oxows,SandersForPresident
Sometimes jokes don't land. Keep working at it bud. You'll be ready for your tight 5 at the Comedy Store in no time. I believe in you.,GrandpaChainz,e8p6jpl,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8v98g2,SandersForPresident
Your comment would be funny if it weren't so sad. I thought we were supposed to be better than this.,MeshesAreConfusing,e8psi8b,SandersForPresident
"Alright, I think I'm getting something mixed up here. You said Lula was in danger of being executed (as in, killed), right?",MeshesAreConfusing,e8oq646,SandersForPresident
"You really need to improve your reading comprehension. I am not debating any of your talking points. I am refuting your dismissal of OP's statement:

>His party tried to turn the economy around by cutting austerity and re-negotiating the loans to provide Keynesian stimulus, but the EU crushed them by threatening sudden removal from the Euro, even as they knew their actions would destroy any chance of recovery.


To which you replied:

>Absolutely not.

Nothing you are debating changes the fact your assertion OP is ""absolutely"" wrong is nonsense. Plenty of evidence supports OP's statement. The microeconomic issues you are stressing are irrelevant to that point, and I am ignoring them accordingly. Your continued attempt to prove your layman's understanding of the Greek Crisis is wholly unnecessary.

If you exercised a modicum of reading comprehension, you could save a tremendous amount of time. ",Stubborn_Outlier,e8vd6hn,SandersForPresident
Better than actually pointing out facts and intentions of a fascist who was just elected?,KurtFF8,e8q0947,SandersForPresident
"“In danger of” confers that there is a chance, but it is rather broad, so it could relay that the chance is high in one context and merely existent in another. I don’t believe the previous poster is stating that Lula *will* be executed, I believe he is merely stating that there is a chance. From his later comment that it is “in the realm of possibilities,” I would assume that he does not believe the chance is high, however, the word choice does leave it pretty ambiguous as to how likely the previous poster believes it is. 

As a citizen of another country (United States) swept up in the recent wave of fascism, through the last two-three years, I’ve been consistently surprised by not only the actions of our politicians, but the willingness and fervor with which individuals have accepted these actions. My state was left leaning, although not by far, and I was dismayed on election night, when it went for Trump, that I was so wrong about where I live and the people around me. Since then, I have been shocked by the opinions of people that I do not consider to be idiots",0ut0fBoundsException,e8oxlsb,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8vfhnc,SandersForPresident
"Better than losing our grip on reality and starting to treat (entirely possible yet still) fringe, conspirational, far-fetched ideas as normal and likely. Fear mongering and sensationalism are not our way. ",MeshesAreConfusing,e8q8efg,SandersForPresident
"I'm not gonna argue that it's impossible that Bolsonaro will throw a military-backed coup and have political enemies, Lula included, executed. But I find that pretty damn unlikely at the present moment, and him dropping that so casually into his comment really gives the wrong impression. We're supposed to be better than the rightwingers, we're supposed to maintain a grip on reality, not succumb to fear mongering and sensationalism...

Besides, even though fascism is gaining ground worldwide, doing something as drastic as *that* would have very serious international repercussions. Brazil doesn't have the military might of Russia, if it gets hit hard by sanctions like they did, it can't be a regional geopolitical strongman and annex/bully its way out of an economic crisis. As stupid as the fashies are, that would be the world's dumbest collective suicide.",MeshesAreConfusing,e8oyzbk,SandersForPresident
"Sick burn, bro. Keep it up!",Stubborn_Outlier,e8vgosu,SandersForPresident
"There's nothing ""fringe"" and ""conspirational"" about pointing out what *actual words* Bolsonaro has said.

But don't just take him for his word, look at what the state there is *already doing* https://www.reddit.com/r/socialism/comments/9ssd76/escalation_in_brazil/",KurtFF8,e8rc5t3,SandersForPresident
"I believe you're right, it would be political suicide to do something that bold. Then again, South/Central America love their assassinations.

I bet people would react the same if someone said Oscar Romero was in danger of assassination, or Somoza (even though he was hated, such a powerful guy.) It sounds so far beyond the realm of possibility, but sometimes truth is stranger than fiction. But again, I think you're right that it won't happen.",Udonis-,e8pa7gb,SandersForPresident
I agree with you.,MeshesAreConfusing,e8pagdo,SandersForPresident
Talk about self-own,BopTheDrass,e8r1e9b,SandersForPresident
"[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1057345613208186880)

* Steve King should not be a member of the United States Congress.

 Iowa: this is your chance to have real leadership. Elect [J.D. Scholten]
(https://twitter.com/Scholten4Iowa) next week!",Chartis,e8qs6va,SandersForPresident
"Lol—Politico changed the title from ‘Bernie Sanders Leads Invisible Primary’ to ‘These Are The 6 Democrats Leading the 2020 Media Primary.’

If you actually read the article, you find that Bernie leads in media coverage significantly over Biden, Warren, and a few others. 

There’s no way that if Biden was ‘wining the invisible primary’ and Bernie was a pretty close second Politico would leave that out of the title.",Zepherx22,e8q2dgo,SandersForPresident
"'Democrats' the newest political party for the rich!  Don't like Universal healthcare?  Take over the Democrats!  Don't like UBI?  Take over the Democrats!  Don't like appropriate taxation?  Take over the Democrats!

Don't like the education, the poor and their needs?!  No problem, TAKE OVER THE DEMOCRATS!",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8pz0f3,SandersForPresident
"You can start boycotting GE, the US Army (and other branches), and the big oil empires like Marathon and ExxonMobil.

The point is, this has to be addressed systemically, because you are not the consumer for these products, clearly, the news organization itself is. It's protection money from the mob. ""Don't speak ill about us or we stop funding you."" ",robotzor,e8pgoug,SandersForPresident
"Until this is easier it will not happen. We need a blacklist app that allows you to tick off which companies/people you are boycotting, then search brands either by name or barcode scanner to check against that list. ",-regaskogena,e8pzjl9,SandersForPresident
"Good luck with that these are the same people who buy buckets of food.  Fund private jets for pastors, tithe money they don't have, watch shows about President Bush and underground lizardmen races. 

At least half the nation funds it and believes it.

We need to increase education so people can tell right from wrong.",Volomon,e8pipw4,SandersForPresident
"Yes, but not just Fox.  I'd like to see boycotts that wipe out ALL conservative media plus all cable companies and related media networks that fought net neutrality.  Let's make some chapter 7 bankruptcies!",revolution2018,e8pbcvr,SandersForPresident
Completely agree,Greg06897,e8pqx21,SandersForPresident
What a surprise! /s,Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8obuxg,SandersForPresident
"I wish ""expert"" economists would have to live on minimum wages for 6 months before writing reports. ",GMBoy,e8of7a5,SandersForPresident
Has anyone seen a compelling relation between the change in min wage and the property price/homelessness in Seattle. That's always the pushback I hear from conservatives is that the wage hike jacked up the property values. ,KirsaMint,e8ol6r0,SandersForPresident
"""it harms workers with the smallest number of hours.""

I want to know if they mean it harms them overall, or it harms them when looking exclusively at the job that gives them the smallest hours.

One of the biggest arguments against minimum wage hikes is that it will end up cutting jobs. But it ends up cutting the ""jobs"" that are a marginal number of fill in hours, that tend to be very sporattic.

The paper does say that many workers have less hours, but the same take home pay. That is a huge fucking win when you look at how much it costs parents for extended care for their kids. ",TheVermonster,e8pdppw,SandersForPresident
"Washington 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://weiapplets.sos.wa.gov/MyVoteOLVR/MyVoteOLVR): October 29, 2018 

[General Election](https://weiapplets.sos.wa.gov/MyVote/#/login): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8pn915,SandersForPresident
The property values were going up regardless.  The whole west coast is experiencing a price spiral regardless of the minimum wage hike.  If the city/count/state land banks don't snap up enough properties for their housing trusts before the next big boom the prices will likely never be affordable for anyone working outside of tech.,Militant_Monk,e8om3lg,SandersForPresident
"Seems like a pretty easy problem to solve with rent control, no?",Terrible_Inspection,e8onscf,SandersForPresident
Property is not being bought by minimum wage workers.,jt42352,e8pd30l,SandersForPresident
Rent control is illegal in Portland.,Jon_Bloodspray,e8owjbh,SandersForPresident
"This article is about Seattle.

Laws can change.

Edit: I mean, true currently though.",Forestthetree,e8p3nop,SandersForPresident
"Oops, I think I meant to reply to another comment about prices in the PNW in general getting out of control.",Jon_Bloodspray,e8p9yvc,SandersForPresident
"[@KatieRose2468:](https://twitter.com/KatieRose2468/status/1057370481949638656)

* This is what you do when you are falsely accused of sexual assault. You ask the FBI to investigate. No High School calendars here....  

>The indictments announced today by the Justice Department confirm once again that Russia interfered in our elections to benefit Donald Trump. The fact that these indictments name 12 members of Russia’s military intelligence service strongly suggests that the interference was directed from the highest levels of the Russian government. It’s imperative that Special Counsel Mueller be allowed to continue his investigation free of pressure.  

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-statement-on-russia-probe-indictments)

It would be beneficial to: 

>* Move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same  

>* Demand that the sanctions against Russia be fully implemented by the president  

>* Not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-introduces-resolution-to-protect-american-democracy-from-russian-meddling)  

>It's a big deal. Bob Mueller was given the assignment of determining whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to undermine American democracy. And today is a major step forward with the indictment of Manafort.  

>I worry very much about the attacks we're seeing every day in a variety of ways, not only from the Russians.  

>Of all the issues and problems facing this country: Making sure we fight to protect and revitalize American democracy and take on all of those people who undermine what men and women fought and died to defend, that is our major task.  

-Bernie, [All Hallows' Eve '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=13&v=Omiw5pRojto)",Chartis,e8rarek,SandersForPresident
If you don't have time to watch the whole talk then at least watch the first 5 minutes as Cenk talks about the coming civil war within the democratic party which we MUST win. Also be aware that the moderator is an editor for Bloomberg News and is clearly bias in favour of the Mainstream Media as you will see.,TomBurcher,e8pt6b7,SandersForPresident
"How does that help TRUMP™ achieve his goal of making his buddies richer? If it doesn't help Him™ and his friends, what does it matter?",Pacifist-Warrior,e8pixqs,SandersForPresident
Which ones do you want they range from 800-4000,lapacheco7,e8qwou2,SandersForPresident
The one in Berkeley recently was 3500. His Indiana rally was 3000,BopTheDrass,e8rka3t,SandersForPresident
"Venues have been full and overflowing. Even with 3 added dates. Numbers are well into the thousands but I'd don't have specifics, it's just too hard to keep up to his spiriting and everyone's activity.  

>[In case there was any question about whether America is still feeling the Bern . . .](https://scontent.fyyc2-1.fna.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/43530772_2195905420730039_8781471617797586944_n.jpg?_nc_cat=106&_nc_ht=scontent.fyyc2-1.fna&oh=82e01a0e2f9f04cf60e90568d434945d&oe=5C7D0063)

-[Jeff Weaver](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2195905440730037&id=100009318073233)",Chartis,e8qx5cb,SandersForPresident
"Let's [make it happen!](https://i.imgur.com/9q6QpB8.jpg)  

* [Vote early if possible](https://www.vote.org/early-voting-calendar/)
* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8m69oc,SandersForPresident
"Holy shit, I'd love to see Bernie budget. He might be the only person with the balls to lower the Defense dept. budget",MoistPockets,e8m6if3,SandersForPresident
Paul Ryan the corrupt asshole doesn't want his tax cuts repealed.,nwsreddit,e8m7idj,SandersForPresident
"Yea I'm alright with that. Kind of the point, Paul. ",twfl,e8m5wcb,SandersForPresident
Never knew Paul ryan can motivate people to vote.,jonstew,e8m90rp,SandersForPresident
Sound’s good to me. It’s even better when you know that it scares the shit out of the Senate Republicans.,reddog323,e8m5ynm,SandersForPresident
"You mean a guy who takes the subway to work, fought segragation, and is a leading example of a public servant?",SapientChaos,e8m8hjy,SandersForPresident
"""You don't want that thing that's working everywhere else in the developed world, now do ya?""",Dicethrower,e8menry,SandersForPresident
"I can't wait for Dems to take over all the Committee Chairs and give a stern ""fuck you"" to all the Repubs trying to make them return to precedents abandoned under Republican control. ",Almighty_Dew,e8m60p8,SandersForPresident
The budget would get back on track in that case. ,thinkB4WeSpeak,e8m7ec2,SandersForPresident
OH for heavens sake PLEASE let this happen.  PLEASE.,chopinrocks,e8m7ewz,SandersForPresident
Shit we might actually pay our bills then,datssyck,e8m6tq9,SandersForPresident
"Well, he just made our case for us.",mandy009,e8mbmao,SandersForPresident
"Oh no the GOP won't be able to ransack the treasury for their oligarch owners anymore.

The horror",dangolo,e8mlpfb,SandersForPresident
Hell yeah he does!,akaBenz,e8m5fjg,SandersForPresident
You're goddamn right! ,some_random_kaluna,e8m7jp8,SandersForPresident
He might not actually want to be in senate leadership due to other.......plans in coming years. ,ekbowler,e8mc67m,SandersForPresident
"Haven't you quit yet, Paul Ryan, for your bag of Koch payday? Ironstache is ready to replace you. ",runk_dasshole,e8mdioa,SandersForPresident
Best thing I’ve read all day!,bankspro13,e8mdqbb,SandersForPresident
"I was already gonna vote Democrat, Paul, you can stop selling",NaptownSwagger,e8mjq88,SandersForPresident
Holy cow I know I'm voting!,blimthetoolman,e8mjtpu,SandersForPresident
"Republicans, we must hit the polls or we might end up with healthcare. /s",cosmothekleekai,e8m6omi,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8m8t13,SandersForPresident
Flip motherfucking congress on Nov 6!,skellener,e8mlg2h,SandersForPresident
Wow! That would be a step forward!,WendyJK,e8mjncz,SandersForPresident
 Donate. Vote. Take our country back. ,Skeetronic,e8mmd6b,SandersForPresident
"**PEOPLE!!!**

It takes more than you just voting! Here are some things you can do:

* find out who your local Assemblyman candidate is and go canvass for them
* call up your local county democrat office and either canvass for them or help them enter canvassing data into their computers
* get a sign and put it in your lawn
* donate $20 to two candidates

Many people in the Democratic party seriously WANT Bernie back in the game. But if he doesn't make it, you can still help your local politicians make a difference. It takes more people getting involved to make a difference. ",Cool_Bastard,e8mxd9j,SandersForPresident
It's messed up that that is actually going to bring a lot of voters out because of decades of socialism propaganda and slander,nolanm14,e8mlgt6,SandersForPresident
"Is Bernie a democrat senator now? Or is he still independent?

Edit: why the downvotes? It was a genuine question.",FinntheFlobot,e8m7bbz,SandersForPresident
Sounds like he's courting centrist dems here.,Zenith_and_Quasar,e8mjuii,SandersForPresident
Cool.,JimH10,e8mm5jv,SandersForPresident
Oh he gonna fuck shit up. ,LevitatingTurtles,e8mmhjg,SandersForPresident
"Haha oh my god, is that true?",PoreJudIsDaid,e8mn1n2,SandersForPresident
Thanks for giving me another reason to vote Democrat this election Paul,AvinashTyagi1,e8mol4l,SandersForPresident
Suck it Paul Ryan ,TheTrickyThird,e8mtwne,SandersForPresident
"And that scares Paul Ryan so much because there goes his dream of killing Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and anything else that might ease the burden of a workingclass that has been systematically brutalized since Reagan.

The only real conspiracy theory has been the one business and conservative activists have been plotting since the 1971 Powell memo.",dirt_and_shovel,e8n8kvi,SandersForPresident
"Dems are unlikely to win the senate anytime soon, unfortunately. ",MelanomaMax,e8mo0ly,SandersForPresident
"Everyone here is thinking this is ironic, but Paul Ryan, along with a large portion of the conservative base, genuinely think that Bernie Sanders would tank the budget",Koomsby,e8mr8gj,SandersForPresident
That’s the point Paul.,kotoamatsukamix,e8mn0mn,SandersForPresident
Challenge Accepted,branchbranchley,e8mnwr0,SandersForPresident
Sounds good to me. ,hecknbork,e8mp2a5,SandersForPresident
"Oh I will, Paul.",Blue9390,e8mp36m,SandersForPresident
Best reason I can think of to vote dem.,marsglow,e8mpb5h,SandersForPresident
Bernie was born for this job. Let's make it happen! Vote and get every person you have ever met to vote.,Lethophobia,e8mpdn4,SandersForPresident
The power of the purse.,Praetorzic,e8mpte8,SandersForPresident
"Paul ""I'm going to balance the budget"" Ryan...instead runs up the deficit and then quits like a little bi#$%. GFY Ryan.",pifhluk,e8mpy3p,SandersForPresident
"I did not know that. Great!!!

More Progressive donations and phone calls coming. ",GMBoy,e8mr3yu,SandersForPresident
I can only get so erect Paul Ryan.,MarcusElder,e8msfit,SandersForPresident
Ryan is a hunk of shit,RippingLegos,e8msi8m,SandersForPresident
I can’t wait. ,LaVieLaMort,e8mtdn9,SandersForPresident
It's like he forgot that a ton of his base *also* likes Senator Sanders. ,,e8mud5q,SandersForPresident
This seriously makes me so excited.  I voted early and I'm so glad I did!,Drawtaru,e8muutq,SandersForPresident
I don't think this is mobilizing the people he wants it to mobilize.,Trainer_Auro,e8mvatt,SandersForPresident
Voted a few weeks ago 👍🏻moved from Ohio to Minnesota though so probably more harm than good really....,smewthies,e8mvm49,SandersForPresident
Not bad. ,Automate_Dogs,e8mvvlm,SandersForPresident
Paul Ryan is quitting anywys what does he care,StrawberryLetter22,e8mw1v2,SandersForPresident
That's called progress. ,BracesForImpact,e8mx7k9,SandersForPresident
We miss you Bernie. I saw someone wearing his shirt out today.  He still has our support. ,Kikokiko_1,e8mylax,SandersForPresident
That’s the fucking idea,bassmentwork,e8mymrz,SandersForPresident
Make my dream come true.,flyonawall,e8mztsk,SandersForPresident
"I don't believe in God, but I'm going to start praying for this to happen.",dont_ban_me_please,e8n2vub,SandersForPresident
"FU@K Yeah Paul, we're going to vote!",workerONE,e8n3q85,SandersForPresident
"I'm a republican, and I just wanna say yes, vote. May the best win. As it should be. ",ProtoSori,e8n6g1z,SandersForPresident
Oh Crap! You mean that billionaires will have to start paying in?  ....I don't even recognize this country any more,snozzbeery,e8nbb71,SandersForPresident
">On the other hand, Ryan warned, [“If we lose the Senate, do you know who becomes chair of the Senate Budget Committee? A guy named Bernie Sanders. You ever heard of him?”](https://www.thenation.com/article/paul-ryan-inadvertently-makes-the-best-case-for-a-democratic-senate-budget-chair-bernie-sanders/)

>Ryan’s comment drew a tepid response from the Young Republicans he was lecturing. No surprise there. Polling suggests that Bernie Sanders is among the most well-regarded political figures in the country, especially among younger voters, and the long-time independent generates far less partisan antipathy than veteran Democrats.

Awesome! I love the old guy and I hope there's people everywhere willing to work with someone for the sake of progress, party lines be damned.",BlundersuitMacGoose,e8ncsd1,SandersForPresident
I've registered to vote and plan to fully support this. Never participated in voting until now.,PaneledJuggler7,e8nd0hz,SandersForPresident
"I usually vote a mixture of republicans and democrats, but today I voted all Democrat. Months ago I decided if Bernie Sanders runs for president im voting for him too. ",Eyehopeuchoke,e8ngwgx,SandersForPresident
"Sounds great, will do!",binkerfluid,e8nhvb2,SandersForPresident
Republicans are evil,VaginaFishSmell,e8nijwu,SandersForPresident
"That's a good thing, Paul",PontiffSulyvahhn,e8nmuly,SandersForPresident
I disagree with almost every single one of Bernies policy goals BUT you gotta respect a man who is that dedicated to his principles and inspires so much fear from the other side he is used in ads. ,DmDomination,e8no9du,SandersForPresident
"Is he threatening us with a great thing? What’s next, vote republican or everyone gets a puppy? Like this gives me more reason to vote (was gonna anyway but still) ",americansherlock201,e8nq9wx,SandersForPresident
Good.,cmdrogogov,e8nrhtm,SandersForPresident
"I don't want my party to lose power so I'm going to announce that if we lose, the single most popular politician in the country will take over the chair of the budget committee...

Paul Ryan is supposed to be a smart-ish person, right?",Captain_Davidius,e8nv1qm,SandersForPresident
Paul Ryan should be boo’d out of every public place he goes for the rest of his life.,KirsaMint,e8nvq4u,SandersForPresident
"Like that is such a bad thing. Let’s be honest, if Hillary hadn’t screwed Bernie in the first place, he would be president. He would have crushed Trump in debates and made him look like a fool. He’s perfect for the Chair.",DustinoHeat,e8nw1gp,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, but guess who our current Speaking of the House is?  A useless tool named Paul Ryan.   

And the current Senate Majority Leader?   You'll never believe this... Mitch McConnell!  Still!

Vote.",readparse,e8nxfy0,SandersForPresident
"I'm British, and I will never understand how Bernie did not breeze through to the presidency. He seems so much more honest and competent than Hillary, and obviously Trump too. ",johnny_riko,e8o0ebo,SandersForPresident
Revenge is a dish best served Bern.,Truck-Nutz,e8o21j8,SandersForPresident
Fuck yeah!,Obeasty,e8o6oqk,SandersForPresident
well I wish they would lose the senate.... but heidi heitcamp is losing.. she should of just offered the voters something to get excited over,4now5now6now,e8ontga,SandersForPresident
Weird flex but ok ,GhostInYoToast,e8mnbk6,SandersForPresident
"I don't think thats even true, I believe Senate Rules say the chair has to be a member of the majority party, and Sanders isn't actually a Democrat, he is a liberal independent. 

Edit: Though he is the former chair of the Veterans Affairs committee, so I guess he can. I kinda think they would pick Patty Murray instead, since she is the 3rd highest ranking Democrat in the Senate, a decade younger, and the second ranking member of the committee. But Sanders does look to have a realistic chance to head the committee, which would be interesting to see. ",Dockirby,e8mm88a,SandersForPresident
"If the DNC didn't cater to hillary, Bernie would be our president right now",FraggleBiscuits,e8mmlpq,SandersForPresident
That sounds like more reason to vote for a democrat,Thetman38,e8mfart,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mtr12,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mub53,SandersForPresident
Goodbye Space Force.,,e8n0uy7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8n7eyc,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8n8hu4,SandersForPresident
"I have a bad feeling that taxing rich people more to pay for things won't solve anything in the long run, and it might make things worse.  I appreciate the idealism, but it ultimately amounts to wishful, unrealistic thinking.  I know there's more to it than *just* taxing rich people, but that has definitely been a major point for Bernie and his supporters. ",Kitchener_Lesley,e8n8jbs,SandersForPresident
Umm... didn't he drop this quote in 2016 right before the election? Does this still hold true?? :D,mcstanky,e8nd81s,SandersForPresident
So pretty much the money will be all gone then ,Neverlearned2surf,e8ne0ya,SandersForPresident
I *am* the senate,Xyrnas,e8neijs,SandersForPresident
What a nice thing for him to say.,TastyBrainMeats,e8o41g8,SandersForPresident
"Wisconsin 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/registertovote): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/FindMyPollingPlace): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8q5f5s,SandersForPresident
Did someone actually use 6 different fonts in this graphic?  Jeeeeez....,immerc,e8mulze,SandersForPresident
"a socialist as the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee isn’t cool

you know what’s cool? a socialist as the chairman of Senate *Appropriations Committee*",paulderev,e8mwf40,SandersForPresident
Can Bernie Sanders accomplish all of his social safety net goals and remove the deficit and debt? ,qzmdjr,e8mv8ro,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8n13yz,SandersForPresident
Would be terrible,cjbest85,e8m9id5,SandersForPresident
"This is from 2016. Bernie no longer caucuses with the democrats, right? He's back to being independent? I don't think Dems would have an I chair.
",DamoclesRising,e8n1ytk,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8nuo5m,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mwhop,SandersForPresident
No on Sanders!,VillainVerified,e8mpaji,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mtk6s,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mqbim,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8n0n97,SandersForPresident
Wait... we want Bernie as the chair of the budget committee? A socialist? Hmmm... I dont want to live on this planet anymore.,thesmileyvirus,e8njgg2,SandersForPresident
Lol,djr0549,e8nky2j,SandersForPresident
"While I would love to see this... what are the odds? I keep seeing articles talking about the disappearing blue wave. Is that to rally voters? Down play the expectations to increase the turnout? 

I really want this to be true, I do. Give us Bernie.",brunicus,e8nvple,SandersForPresident
"Stay home you Republican shit birds!
",GabrielDunn,e8o3jzi,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders is more of a joke than Donald Trump, and that’s saying something.",ComplicatedShoes1070,e8mvviv,SandersForPresident
God help us,Divemasterjim,e8mugqs,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8muoch,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mz7ln,SandersForPresident
Scary,TubbyTag,e8mzw6q,SandersForPresident
We better not lose the senate then...,JohnLawless,e8nprcd,SandersForPresident
A socialist deciding the budget? Oh god no.,Blaffles,e8mxxbr,SandersForPresident
"Yes. Because somehow, the same Bernie Sanders that the DNC literally screwed out of a fair shot at the presidency in 2016 is going to somehow influnce [the same Democrats who, in 2018, voted to give Trump everything he wanted, and then some](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/01/17/these-18-senate-democrats-just-voted-hand-trump-mass-spying-powers?utm_campaign=shareaholic&utm_medium=reddit&utm_source=news). 

/s

Who was it that said insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results?

",BreaukDownPalace,e8n2e26,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mqjd0,SandersForPresident
When you make tuition free and students complain about lack of money in universities,Ctrl_Alt_Llama__,e8mrkpq,SandersForPresident
">Donate to Bernie's Tour

That's literally a meme. Are you joking?  ",YeYeezy,e8mse1o,SandersForPresident
I agree.  He is one of the only Senators that doesn’t get scared by their High School intimidation tactics.,FutureFlipKing,e8ma5ii,SandersForPresident
"I like Bernie but I can't believe ""lowering defense funding"" is a huge far left goal lol. I wish ""pulling out of the 7 wars we're in"" was on the table.",souprize,e8ma9cb,SandersForPresident
Dude I work for a defense contractor and I can tell pls do this. This company is pretty wasteful and misuses a lot of money. ,ShadowFox2020,e8mtfau,SandersForPresident
"Point of fact: we don't need to reduce defense spending one penny to balance the budget *and* generate a healthy surplus which will cover our three core policies (healthcare, tuition, a stronger welfare state.)

That's not to say that we *shouldn't* reduce defense spending, but it may be a red herring. Our tax-to-GDP ratio, compared with other Western nations', side by side with the plummeting income tax rates on high earners, paint a very straightforward picture: a picture in which America's massive spending is entirely tenable, as long as our federal income is reflective of our GDP and, like, reality.",TheChance,e8mfhld,SandersForPresident
"After spending 6 years active duty military, I came to realize first hand how extraordinarily high our defense budget is. ",tronpalmer,e8mwtdx,SandersForPresident
The only politician door that lobbiests don't even bother knocking on anymore. Bernie. ,seancanada,e8msrh1,SandersForPresident
At this point I'd settle for a good fucking audit.,BellerophonM,e8n54ha,SandersForPresident
Too bad even his fellow Dems wouldn't vote to pass a budget that cuts offense spending. I say offense because the military isn't used to defend America. ,IllusiveLighter,e8nuvld,SandersForPresident
"He was the only Dem to vote against the increased defense budget iirc, vs 7 Republicans that voted against it as well.",pppppppenis,e8moqlg,SandersForPresident
Perhaps he could up the budget for OP's graphic design education though! ,Respectable_Answer,e8myi4t,SandersForPresident
He'd be JFK'd within a week of even suggesting it.,Iorith,e8ml8kq,SandersForPresident
Mo money fo dem programs,BendersDame,e8ms67m,SandersForPresident
Is anyone interested in eliminating the deficit and paying off the national debt? I hear a lot of back and forth over what programs should or should not exist but no one seems to ever make any headway on the debt...,qzmdjr,e8nfx7i,SandersForPresident
"Why should he go after the defense dept. Budget? Its not even 16% of the federal budget, removing the military entirely would still leave us with a deficit of over 350b/year. ",SmellyApartment,e8nr23j,SandersForPresident
"You can lower the DoDs budget by 400 billion, give half to infrastructure and have another 200 billion to get medical on its feet.  ",crewchief535,e8mq5m4,SandersForPresident
"No please I need to find a job, get me into the MI complex before then, plz.  

On second thought if you wanna triple the budget for NASA I’m down not to kill people.  ",vader5000,e8mwqxo,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8mg7ea,SandersForPresident
"Never.

https://www.cnbc.com/2016/07/12/why-bernie-sanders-is-backing-a-15-trillion-military-boondoggle.html

https://taskandpurpose.com/sanders-position-on-the-f-35-contradicts-his-views-on-defense-spending/",Fixitinpostmate,e8n4j5d,SandersForPresident
"Cool, this fact alone changed my vote from Democrat to Republican.",SmallBet,e8n3ofl,SandersForPresident
"You mean like the balls he had standing up against corporate greed and obvious political corruption? 


Just kidding he told us to vote for Clinton. ",turquoisetintdiving,e8nf4ri,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mg8it,SandersForPresident
"Riiight.

He votes for billions of dollars in funding for the F-35 program but he's gonna reduce the defense budget.

Okay. ",amateurstatsgeek,e8mz5yl,SandersForPresident
FFFFUUUUUCCCCCKKKK PPPPPPAAAAAUUUUULLLLLL RRRRRYYYYYAAAANNNN!!!!!,middlefingerpuppet,e8mvzmr,SandersForPresident
"I can’t wait for the next democratic president to undo all the shitty legislation and other policies this dipshit in chief created. He took an economy that was steaming along *finally, *is going to shove it down the shitter, and blame Democrats. Not gonna work. ",PM_ME_YOUR_WIRING,e8n27ah,SandersForPresident
"You keeping your money is default so saying ""repeal tax cut"" is just saying you aren't taking more. Adding modifiers that existed in the past and then presenting it as if it's the default. Very disingenuous way to have a discussion but I know nobody cares.",shifty313,e8np028,SandersForPresident
I know right? He says it like it's a bad thing (I mean to him it is but still) ,Mklein24,e8mm0or,SandersForPresident
I guess those of us who work hard for our money need to make sure this doesn’t happen ,lakai113,e8mpxc7,SandersForPresident
"He's superb at it when contrasted with progressives like Bernie or [@IronStache:](https://twitter.com/IronStache/status/1054870109150429189)

* We just took a one-point lead over Paul Ryan's handpicked candidate. They’ve spent millions on attacks, but thanks to your support, we’re fighting back and winning. [Chip in now](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bryce-new-poll-oct) to help us get out the vote and win this race.

[Randy Bryce](https://i.redd.it/yaxizidbktt11.jpg)

[Stache of Iron](https://i.imgur.com/sMZPdGo.gif)  

[For Congress](https://www.randybryceforcongress.com/)",Chartis,e8m9ep6,SandersForPresident
"Do something because it's the right thing to do, not because it ""scares the shit out of someone""

They act like that, be better. ",Epyon_,e8mtemc,SandersForPresident
"You're right, it does.  I'll be sure to vote red.",simjanes2k,e8n1dqs,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8msu55,SandersForPresident
You mean a guy with the highest approval rating in the senate?,-Badger2-,e8n0892,SandersForPresident
Lol you do know he's a millionaire right?,LexLuvsit,e8n8kgd,SandersForPresident
"No the guy who sold out to Clinton and bought a $400,000 beach house after the election.",ArizonaIcedOutBoys,e8na297,SandersForPresident
"I’m going to stand over here holding my breath, you let me know when the democrats start going to the mat for working class people.",CinnamonJ,e8m7wqr,SandersForPresident
"Bernie only gets that chairmanship if people like Manchin, Heitkamp, and McCaskill win their races. ",TheTrueMilo,e8n4ogr,SandersForPresident
The democrats won’t win the senate ,tranquil45,e8maow9,SandersForPresident
It's an active endeavor. Make it happen. Fight like hell!,Chartis,e8mao93,SandersForPresident
Leadership would be great. For him,patb2015,e8meedb,SandersForPresident
"91% of Americans have health insurance. I’m not willing to pay more or have worse coverage to give it to those 9%. 

I don’t see any way insuring an extra 29 million people could cost the same, so prices have to go up. I don’t see any way the same number of doctors can cover an extra 29 million people, so coverage has to get worse. 

If there is some way to decrease total prices and increase capacity, then we should do that regardless of giving away services to almost 30 million people. So even that doesn’t seem like a good argument for single payer, to me. 

It’s not that I don’t care about people, it’s that I’m already taxed enormously and I don’t feel like giving away any more. 

I know this isn’t a popular opinion here, but a lot of Americans share this opinion. It’s one reason people vote against Bernie. 

If someone disagrees I’m open for conversation. ",237FIF,e8msqal,SandersForPresident
"Yes, you vote for literally whoever has the D next to their name if you want Sanders to chair a committee.  ",TheTrueMilo,e8n4r6d,SandersForPresident
Our sidebar holds several progressive organizations' endorsements. While you're over there consider subscribing.,Chartis,e8m8xvc,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/enough_sanders_spam] [""Is there a guide to who to vote for by state if we’re pro republicans losing the senate?"" \[+11\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/Enough_Sanders_Spam/comments/9sejix/is_there_a_guide_to_who_to_vote_for_by_state_if/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8o5176,SandersForPresident
"I've yet to hear a large scale, long term vision that's a viable alternative to what's proposed by the United Nations'. What we do during these 9 days could be at least equal to what we do during the next year in regards to climate change. We're already [over 1°C above pre-industrial temps](http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/climate-lab-book/files/2017/01/preind_fig5_updated2016.png) and only have 11 years to stop the sliver left before [the scale tips:](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)   

>* Stop [irrationally demonizing taxation](https://i.redd.it/u4mfusbgmnu11.jpg) and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[UN Human Rights Report](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)   

>Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net 
anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030

-[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)

>To accomplish the key transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

>Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior...    

>As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a [job guarantee](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf) would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

-[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

I'm stoked about Bernie's international new deal initiative: [Progressives International](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/26/sanders-and-varoufakis-announce-alliance-craft-common-blueprint-international-new). This endeavor in rational humanism will be covered by r/GlobalProgress as more is known.  ",Chartis,e8mm2pe,SandersForPresident
"He’s an independent, but caucuses with the Dems.",dontcallmesweetheart,e8m8zk0,SandersForPresident
"I also believe the top dems don't like him and are unlikely to put him in charge of anything. 

You're right on the money with your question. Saying Dems will make Bernie Sanders chair of the budget committee isn't likely to happen.",Jarocket,e8nz8iy,SandersForPresident
"Yes. He's currently the [Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee](https://www.budget.senate.gov/ranking-member/newsroom):    

>[In a Democratic-run Senate, Sanders also would be in line to chair the Senate Budget Committee.](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2016/08/09/senate-panel-could-help-sanders-further-goals-political-revolution/88444944/)  

See also: [The house speaker knows that if the GOP loses seats in Congress, Bernie Sanders could become the Senate Budget Committee Chairperson.](https://www.thenation.com/article/paul-ryan-inadvertently-makes-the-best-case-for-a-democratic-senate-budget-chair-bernie-sanders/)",Chartis,e8mng5m,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mzu6v,SandersForPresident
"A portion of the base for sure. But as much as I don't respect Paul I think he's aware of the the pragmatics of Bernie's policy. Then again, maybe too much duplicity has taken a true toll on the fleeing Congressman.  ",Chartis,e8mriu6,SandersForPresident
"Media coverage had a lot to do with it. Which is partly why I'm here.  

>When people talk about how well we did with young people, clearly one of the reasons for that was our success with social media....

---         

>Media is about what is not covered. The more important the issue is to large numbers of working people, the less interesting it is to corporate media. Issues being pushed by the top 1% get a lot of attention. My candidacy, alone, accounted for the majority of attention that network Sunday news shows paid to poverty, one of the great crises facing the nation. National television coverage ignores the reality of important parts of American life. Corporations have an agenda that serves their bottom line. In fact, that’s the reason for their existence. The largest media corporations are themselves owned by even larger conglomerates that have their own particular set of economic interests. 

>The extraordinary power of the multinational corporations provides billions of dollars a year in advertising revenue to the corporate owners of the media. These powerful corporations have an agenda. Six corporations control 90% of what we see, hear, and read. This is outrageous, and a real threat to our democracy. Those six corporations are Comcast, News Corp, Disney, Viacom, Time Warner, and CBS. 

>I received 46% of the pledged delegates, won twenty-two states, and lost some states by a few votes. In other words, we had a significant amount of support from ordinary people. On the other hand, I did not win 46% of the endorsements from the print establishment and the leading newspapers in the country. In fact, I won only one. I was very proud to have received the endorsement of The Seattle Times. 

>The political revolution, our revolution, must continue. Stay involved and get your friends involved. Run for the school board, city council, state legislature. Run for governor. Run for Congress. Run for the Senate. Run for president. Hold your elected officials accountable. Know what they’re doing and how they’re voting—and tell your neighbors. But transforming America is more than just elections. It’s about changing our culture.  

>Demand that the media focuses on the real issues facing our nation and the world, not just political gossip. And if corporate media won’t change, and they won’t, start new media. The Internet offers revolutionary prospects.

>The future is in your hands. Let’s get to work.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Our Revolution - A Future to Believe In](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250160454)",Chartis,e8o0qvq,SandersForPresident
"That’s the point, sergeant",Fried_Fart,e8ms2ha,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8nwp59,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8nwpib,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8nwq3x,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8nbbtb,SandersForPresident
"######TAX PLAN    

[BernieSanders.com](https://berniesanders.com/issues/making-the-wealthy-pay-fair-share)

**Reforming the Corporate Tax Code**  

* End the rule allowing American corporations to defer paying federal income taxes on profits of offshore subsidiaries.
* Prevent corporations from avoiding U.S. taxes by claiming to be a foreign company through the establishment of a post office box in a tax haven country.  
* Eliminate tax breaks for big oil, gas, and coal companies.  
* Prevent American companies from avoiding U.S. taxes by corporate inversions.  
* Close loopholes that allow U.S. corporations to artificially inflate or accelerate foreign tax credits.


**Reforming the Estate Tax**

* Exempt the first $3.5 million of an individual’s estate from the estate tax.
* A 45% tax that would only impact the wealthiest 0.3% of Americans who inherit more than $3.5 million. 50% for $10-$50 million of value, 55% for $50+ million, and an additional billionaire’s surtax of 10%.  

* End tax breaks for dynasty trusts.
 1. Strengthen the “generation-skipping tax” by applying it with no exclusion to any trust set up to last more than 50 years.
 2. Bar donors from taking assets back from GRATs just a couple of years after establishing them 
 3. Ensure walthy families pay income taxes on earnings generated by assets in “grantor trusts.”
 4. Sharply limit the annual exclusion from the gift tax for gifts made to trusts.

* Close other loopholes in the estate and gift tax, including valuation discounts.
* Protect farm land and conservation easements, 
 1. Allow family farmers to lower the value of their farmland by up to $3 million for estate tax purposes.
 2. Increase the maximum exclusion for conservation easements to $2 million.


**Tax Wall Street Speculators**

* Create a tax on Wall Street to significantly reduce speculation and high frequency trading. 
 1. This plan would provide a tax credit to individuals making under $50,000 and couples making under $75,000 to ensure that they would not be impacted.
 2. Trades would be taxed at a rate of 0.5% for stocks, 0.1% for bonds, and 0.005% for derivatives.


**Lift the cap on taxable income that goes into the Social Security Trust Fund**

* Tax on all income above $250,000 to expand Social Security benefits and to ensure that Social Security remains solvent for the next 58 years. 98.5% of wage earners would not see their taxes go up.  


**Reforming the Personal Income Tax**

* End Tax Breaks for Capital Gains and Dividends for the Wealthy: Repeal the special, low income tax rates on capital gains and stock dividends for married couples with incomes greater than $250,000.  

* Higher Income Tax Rates for the Wealthiest 2.1% percent of households.  
 1.  37% on income $250,000-$500,000.
  2.  43% on income $500,000-$2 million.
  3.  48% on income $2 million-$10 million.
  4.  52% on income $10 million and above. 

* Limit tax deductions for the rich: Replace the Alternative Minimum Tax, PEP, and the limit on itemized deductions with a $0.28 dollar limit on tax savings for each dollar of deductions for households with incomes above $250,000.

---  

######INEQUALITY

Good governance ensures an equitable society because of the [benefits that limiting harm fosters.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ)  

The government is mandated to regulate commerce and is already doing do. A government of the people, by the people, and for the people means a system that works for all of us, not just a few.    

Trump's TCJA costs [$9.5 trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/reports/53884-apb2019.pdf) over 10 years.  83% of which [goes to benefit the 1%](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/18/16791174/republican-tax-bill-congress-conference-tax-policy-center). 


Divided by the [97,600,000](https://www.fool.com/taxes/2017/03/14/how-much-does-the-average-american-pay-in-taxes.aspx) taxpaying members of the 99% (minus the $1,671/y that helps fund accessible programs), that results in an average $6,373/y per person being transferred to the 1%. A tithe of **$17.46 being paid every day** of the year by workers to those making [$719,000](https://www.ssa.gov/cgi-bin/netcomp.cgi?year=2017) or more. All the while:  

&nbsp;  

>44% of adults could not cover an emergency expense costing $400. 

>The policies pursued over the past year seem deliberately designed to remove basic protections from the poorest, punish those who are not in employment, and make even basic health care into a privilege to be earned rather than a right of citizenship. This bodes ill for for society as a whole.

>The persistence of extreme poverty is a political choice made by those in power. 

---

>* Stop irrationally demonizing taxation and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[UN Report On US Poverty](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)   

&nbsp;    

And worldwide it's even worse:  

[148,200 individuals have personal assets of over $50 million.](https://i.imgur.com/PDpDwLp.png) In total they own ~$31 trillion, 11% of global wealth is owned by a group that could fit inside a stadium.  

[$30 trillion is illegally hidden](https://gabriel-zucman.eu/files/AJZ2017b.pdf) resulting in trillions worth of taxes stolen from the public per year, a theft which is several times what's needed today to [effectively address climate change.](http://unionsforenergydemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/sternreview_report_complete.pdf)  

[The world's 2200 billionaires have 20% more wealth than 1/2 of Humanity combined.](https://static.poder360.com.br/2017/11/global-wealth-report-2017-en.pdf)    

>Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

>To fight today’s extreme inequality, we must strengthen the coalition of progressive democrats and challenge the global oligarchy.  

-Bernie Sanders: [A World for All of Us, Not Just the Billionaires](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)  

---  

&nbsp;  

######FEDERAL JOB PROGRAM

>The program pays a uniform wage of $15/h, for both part-time & full-time work... It also offers basic healthcare through and expansion of Medicare, as well as other basic benefits such as childcare—effectively establishing a minimum benefits pack.  

>The PSE program is designed to ensure that all employers pay fair (living) wages, but without competing for employees or displacing private sector undertakings.  

>The design targets job creation for workers with lower skills and education—since they have high unemployment & underemployment. PSE participation for workers with greater education and skills will be transitional until conditions improve... when labor markets are tight, employers will recruit workers out of the PSE program.  

>By design, employment in the PSE program will move in a countercyclical pattern—growing in downturns and shrinking in recoveries as workers are pulled into the private sector. This helps to stabilize economic activity and household incomes. Economists call this an automatic stabilizer. The government’s budget will also move in a countercyclical manner as spending on the program cycles with the economy. This too helps to smooth cyclical fluctuations.  


>We also see the advantages of decentralizing administration to the community level. Since the goal is to create jobs in every community, and to create projects that are beneficial to every community, it makes sense to involve the local communities in the projects from the proposal stage through to implementation, administration, & evaluation. We would allow state and local governments as well as registered nongovernmental, not-for-profits to put forth proposals.  


>Proposals can be solicited for apprenticeship programs that would train PSE workers for skilled employment outside the program after a term.  


>Scaling up to a national program that might employ 15 million workers will take time. The program will probably be phased in over a period of several years, both in terms of the numbers employed and the wages & benefits paid.  

>There are approximately 15 million potential workers who would be likely to join the program.   

>* 1 full-time worker could lift a family of up to 5 out of poverty
>* 1 full-time & 1 part-time worker, a family of 8 could rise out of poverty. 
>* In 2016, nearly 7.5 million people in families with a full-time worker lived in poverty. 
>* 9.5 million children would be lifted out of poverty. 
>* The average income gap of the 8 million families living in poverty in 2016 was $10,505—which is less than what a half-time job in the PSE would pay. 
>* Direct spending on the program is just below 2.5% of GDP per year. (Excluding increases in tax revenue due to economic growth as well as potential savings on a wide range of federal, state, and local programs that are targeted to low-income households. In 2015 for example, the federal government spent  $104  billion  on  food and nutritional service programs.)  

-[Report](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf)",Chartis,e8nbroz,SandersForPresident
[It's treason then.](https://i.imgur.com/kvkfrvR.jpg),Chartis,e8nvys3,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8n61p9,SandersForPresident
"Haha dude you smoke weed but your obsessed with the GOP, you are dumb as fuck.",readythespaghetti,e8mrfnm,SandersForPresident
MAGAchuds begone,Marcus_McTavish,e8mgau3,SandersForPresident
"Though he caucuses with the Democrats and is the Democratic Outreach Coordinator for Senate leadership he's always been a independent Senator. He was Chair of Veteran's affairs as such. He's currently the [Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee](https://www.budget.senate.gov/ranking-member/newsroom):    

>[In a Democratic-run Senate, Sanders also would be in line to chair the Senate Budget Committee.](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2016/08/09/senate-panel-could-help-sanders-further-goals-political-revolution/88444944/)  

See also: [The house speaker knows that if the GOP loses seats in Congress, Bernie Sanders could become the Senate Budget Committee Chairperson.](https://www.thenation.com/article/paul-ryan-inadvertently-makes-the-best-case-for-a-democratic-senate-budget-chair-bernie-sanders/)",Chartis,e8n2cs0,SandersForPresident
But you’re right that it is from 2016,overitatoverit,e8nd9p0,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8p3r8y,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8n5yqb,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8p3pzv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8mqe3n,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8n0uew,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8n6037,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8mzekv,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8n60o4,SandersForPresident
"Nope: https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive  

Donations only to Bernie can be done so [here.](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-reddit)  

>If you can afford to -- and ONLY if you can afford to -- please consider making a donation ",Chartis,e8msj21,SandersForPresident
"https://media3.giphy.com/media/l2JI29ccohFCPowxi/giphy.gif?cid=4bf119fc5bd655024f4a6e2e36039529
They are more scared of him",BobsNephew,e8mvvx0,SandersForPresident
He's too old for their shit.,YukiSnowmew,e8muczp,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8nf641,SandersForPresident
"It is, and soon: 

>The War in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster.

>Many thousands of civilians have been killed. Millions are now at the risk of the most severe famine in more than 100 years.  

>* We are providing bombs the Saudi-led coalition is using  
>* We are refueling their planes before they drop those bombs  
>* We are assisting with intelligence  

>An American-made bomb obliterated a school bus full of young boys. American weapons have been used in a string of such deadly attacks on civilians.  

>2015-2018 more than 30% of the Saudi-led coalition’s targets have been nonmilitary.   


---  

>Mr. Pompeo had overruled the State Department’s own regional and military experts. President Trump himself echoed this logic when asked about the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, claiming that the Saudis are spending “$110 billion” on military equipment. A former lobbyist for the arms manufacturer Raytheon leads Mr. Pompeo’s legislative affairs staff.  


>The relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only strengthened with the intensification of the war. The war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve. The conflict between Saudi-led forces and the Houthi insurgents had helped Al Qaeda and the Islamic State’s Yemen branch “deepen their inroads across much of the country.” 

---  

>American engagement there has not been authorized by Congress, and is therefore unconstitutional.  

>1. the war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States. 
>2. the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert authority over matters of war.

>[Senate Joint Resolution 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/54) calls on the president to withdraw from the Saudi-led war in Yemen.  

>The Senate voted 55 to 44 to delay consideration of the resolution. Next month, I intend to bring that resolution back to the floor. 

>The brutal murder of Mr. Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional. Human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers.  

-Bernie, [Oct 24^th '18](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/24/opinion/bernie-sanders-saudi-arabia-war-yemen.html)",Chartis,e8mai1r,SandersForPresident
Lowering defense funding effectively does that AND pays for social programs. ,capoony147,e8mfos2,SandersForPresident
"We can start by ending the war on drugs..

Don't mind me.",JesseBrown447,e8mhcrz,SandersForPresident
"We have 5% of the population of the world, but 35% of the military spending.

Our spending is of course highest in the world, but it is more than the totals of #2 through #10 combined (those other 9 countries, btw, coming to more than 10x our population).

Meanwhile, our population suffers from a reprehensible level of healthcare service, higher education funding, and transportation infrastructure, for example- repeatedly explained as a result of ""not enough funding""

So, yeah, reducing nonsensical defense spending is, in fact, a very reasonable goal in and of itself.  I agree that underfunding what we need to do is a bad idea, and I agree that we need to be involved in fewer conflicts.  But I think, if you look at our spending in context, it's clear that the spending is more than just a downstream impact of the conflicts.  In fact, I can't help but wonder if our leadership's willingness to enter I to conflict isn't integrally tied to the perception of defense as a blank check.  Either way, even if we shut down every conflict right now, the budget still doesn't cut itself.",defiancecp,e8mzkgs,SandersForPresident
Yeah those aren't in any way mutually exclusive. In fact lowering the defense budget goes a long way toward ending some of the fighting.,mw19078,e8mmo5a,SandersForPresident
dumbass. you do that by cutting funding. You cant get through to warhawks and redcpas. You just have to change the conditions they experience. Only way to change a republican is to make them personally suffer the consequences.,LyrEcho,e8mfjna,SandersForPresident
Well the far left doesn't believe in nations so why would you need a defense budget?,robm0n3y,e8o1661,SandersForPresident
Soon --- all wars will be on the table.,GMBoy,e8mr8ef,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8mu52a,SandersForPresident
"Honest question, but how do you wake up every morning and go to work? You are helping their cause. ",justchillyo,e8nc93p,SandersForPresident
"Point taken on [the ability to pay](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9oyq86/mitch_mcconnell_and_the_republicans_have_always/e7yxaz8/) for core policies (and for not opposing that [military spending should be cut](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/8s71tq/bernie_sanders_i_do_not_hear_any_objections_to/e0x1op3/)). Though I'll highlight that currency is created when the federal government authorizes budgets. It's backed by natural resources, production capacity, & workflow hours. If what is produced is of net determent or results in further income or wealth inequality then it, by definition, is worthless. And if assets are produced or the economy is stimulated to work for everyone then it's of benefit.   

It's a disservice to our future efforts at using this mechanism for the power that it is when the simple creation of money is called out. Instead we can focus on the harm & pain that results from such productions and the inequality being purposely fostered.  

Sanders Institute Fellow Dr. Kelton does a superb job of laying out an overview of [Modern Monetary Theory (MMT) here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/) 
",Chartis,e8mgqj1,SandersForPresident
"Frankly, I think the defense budget could be reduced without any reduction in soldier pay, benefits or combat effectiveness just through an audit and removing inefficiency and cruft. The military-industrial complex is a huge cash cow, and if we were to subject it to scrutiny, public funds could be used much more effectively. (In fact, the three greatest threats to American national security, climate change, Russian interference and the Republican party, aren't things that can be defeated through brute military force.)",SoldierofNod,e8mkx51,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8mkxpu,SandersForPresident
I did the same but just looked at the budget ,datareinidearaus,e8n69re,SandersForPresident
"Agreed.  The military industrial complex, simply sitting back and *letting* someone take their gravy train away?  

Not fucking likely.",flee_market,e8mmxdu,SandersForPresident
Hell yeah about time!,goforthandconquer,e8r3mgz,SandersForPresident
"[It was 54% in 2015, and it likely higher now.](https://www.nationalpriorities.org/campaigns/military-spending-united-states/)",i-hear-banjos,e8o3rtb,SandersForPresident
">We can create millions, millions of good paying union jobs when we begin to rebuild this crumbling infrastructure.    

-Bernie, [Oct 22^nd '18](https://youtu.be/OtDH2XfY1ko?t=3864)  

>* We can create millions of good paying jobs and help lead the world in combating climate change.  
>* We can create hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs in childcare.   
>* We can create millions of good paying jobs rebuilding our infrastructure.  

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3595)",Chartis,e8mxlci,SandersForPresident
Medicare for all would actually cost less in the long run for everyone.,bgilb,e8mm569,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",neurocentricx,e8mvavv,SandersForPresident
"Which vote was that?

**Concerning the basing of the F-35 program:**

I found this published [here](https://vtdigger.org/2017/03/08/rosanne-greco-5-way-win-solution-airport-noise-problems/) on March 8^th '17:  
  
>Court documents show that Sen. Patrick Leahy phoned the Air Force chief of staff and told him to base the F-35 in Vermont. Sen. Leahy and Sen. Bernie Sanders both stated they supported the F-35 basing because the F-35 was essential for VTANG’s future. Court documents show this reason was incorrect. The senators, along with many other Vermonters, were misled to believe that VTANG needed the F-35 to continue to have a mission. Federal and legal documents, as well as sworn testimony from the U.S. Air Force, show unequivocally that VTANG will continue to have a flying mission whether or not the F-35 is based here.  

I don't think there was a vote but the Air Force announced their intent to seek basing locations [here](http://www.af.mil/News/ArticleDisplay/tabid/223/Article/111369/air-force-officials-release-draft-eis-for-f-35-operational-basing.aspx), and [here](http://www.af.mil/News/ArticleDisplay/tabid/223/Article/111369/air-force-officials-release-draft-eis-for-f-35-operational-basing.aspx) announced:  

>The current active Air Force and Air National Guard alternatives under consideration are: Burlington Air Guard Station, Vt.; Hill Air Force Base, Utah; Jacksonville Air Guard Station, Fla.; Mountain Home AFB, Idaho; and Shaw AFB/McEntire Joint National Guard Base, S.C.

>...The draft EIS for the F-35A operational locations opens a 45-day public comment period. The Air Force will conduct 17 public hearings at locations surrounding the potentially impacted communities to receive oral and written comments on the draft EIS.  

[Here's](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/release-air-national-guard-to-be-first-f-35-joint-strike-fighter-base ) Senator Sanders' [statements]( 
https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/delegation-statement-on-f-35s ) on the matter:  

 

>It is a sign of the great national respect and admiration for the Vermont National Guard that it was selected by the Air Force in a very competitive process.    

~

>The Air Force has made clear that this aircraft, which will anchor our national air defenses, is the Air Force’s future.  Now the men and women of Vermont’s Air National Guard have been chosen for a vital role in that future.  The decision ensures the Vermont Air Guard’s continuing mission and protects hundreds of jobs and educational opportunities for Vermonters while securing its significant contribution to the local economy.  We appreciate the Guard’s commitment to continue working with its airport neighbors to address legitimate concerns about noise and other environmental concerns.  ",Chartis,e8n0147,SandersForPresident
"Well then it will happen again when it’s flipped again tho, it’s like a never ending flip because the USA is divided practically ",Jacobpara,e8ni8q4,SandersForPresident
Obama made the Bush tax cuts permanent.,robm0n3y,e8o0wuy,SandersForPresident
What? He helped get legislation passed and doesn't want it repealed. That's all I'm saying.,nwsreddit,e8np2n3,SandersForPresident
This is effective messaging for both sides. Like Bernie? Vote! Hate Bernie? Vote! ,PrayForMojo_,e8mnxk1,SandersForPresident
"If you have to work hard for your money, then getting Bernie in charge is probably in your best interest. The people who don't have to work hard are the ones who should be afraid of him.",heisenberg747,e8mqg54,SandersForPresident
Someone doesn’t know anything about Bernie’s policies lol,ariagrayx,e8mtbye,SandersForPresident
"I found a brainwashed sheep!

Bernie doesn't want to take more of your money. He wants to reduce how much goes into A) Military, and B) Back into the pockets of the mill/billionaires, and reallocate that to more worthy avenues for spending.

Rather than support the group that is reducing how much mill/billionaires contribute to society and in doing so increasing the burden on the average joe like yourself, you should support those that are trying to hold the richest accountable.",Rumstein,e8mvfdw,SandersForPresident
"GOP has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, killed the economy, and mismanaged everything turning the US into a laughing stock. He's a narcissist racist pos who in his own words wants America to fail.

Why would anyone vote for that wut 
",onyxrecon008,e8mtfxj,SandersForPresident
"Holy shit that's great news! I heard not long ago that he took a dip, but that's promising!

Too many elections to watch... Damn.

Also, Iron Stache sounds like a Rammstein song. ",lennybird,e8mjzp5,SandersForPresident
You might want to reread what he wrote.,Beginning_End,e8muhqo,SandersForPresident
Who wants to vote for more fascism?,MIGsalund,e8o2w4e,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8n2136,SandersForPresident
What's his approval rating?,tp736,e8n3iky,SandersForPresident
So what? You don't have to be poor to want to help them.,Wololo--Wololo,e8na29c,SandersForPresident
"He lives in the state with the highest medium income in the nation, lives in a small town in the same house for nearly 50 years, seems to live frugally, and is still working at 77 years old. 20+ years after many people retire. ",SapientChaos,e8nfnlx,SandersForPresident
No need to spread easily disproved lies. ,JonnyFairplay,e8nr9h8,SandersForPresident
"Well repubs sure as fuck haven’t.

Ie: healthcare, education, epa, fcc, one big long fuuucckkk you to the people and massive reach arounds to the wealthy.

As long as Mitch McConnell and Trump in charge I’m not even paying any attention to any republican ideas.  Get them out of office and I will again.

Path: Ex mod repub -> ex middle -> Ex dem -> progressive",OaklandHellBent,e8mc6qj,SandersForPresident
"I know it's popular to hate on all Dems in office but they do push things like minimum wage increases, access to health care, safe drinking water, consumer protections, etc. ",DefiantInformation,e8m9cyi,SandersForPresident
"You mean other than the push for minimum wages, union rights, food stamps, paid vacations, paternity/maternity leave, universal health care, consumer protections?

Oh and for a more detailed example how Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders were the only Senators to stand up to Wells Fargo who were creating millions of fake credit accounts?

Jesus.",krrepublic,e8mmwkh,SandersForPresident
That's the spirit.,Almighty_Dew,e8n3t3s,SandersForPresident
a lot of Americans should start comparing the cost of health care in the states to other first world country's and pointing the finger at the health racket you guys have set up which has led to you guys paying enormous prices. You live in a society. Stop spending so much on defense and start spending more on social aspects in your country.,midved,e8myq55,SandersForPresident
"I think you’re missing a lot of tertiary benefits to providing health care to everyone, and totally ignoring any of the research that shows it would actually cost you less money to cover everyone.  

A healthier population uses less care, especially later in life.  That alone would offset costs dramatically for everyone paying into a Medicare for all system.  

Almost as important as a healthier population, cost controls over profiteering pharmaceutical companies, price gouging medical clinics and hospitals, and unnecessary testing and procedures is a huge part of the problem.  Having state and federal power to contain those costs and set sensible pricing for medical care is a must, and it is not going to happen unless we legislate it.  Medicare for all would provide that opportunity.  

In the end you do end up paying for the people who don’t have health care.  You pay for it when your insurance premiums go up as hospitals have to charge more for uninsured patients that can’t pay bills.  You pay for it when society deals with unhealthy people that make unhealthy choices like drugs, or crime because they do not have their basic needs met.  

You pay for it all, and on top of the money that goes to paying for patient care you are paying the obscene amounts of money that go to line the pockets of the executives and shareholders of insurance, pharmaceutical, and patient care corporations.  

Medicare for all would dramatically lessen the cost of administering insurance, primarily because the profit motive would no longer siphon off premiums for profit, and because we have way too many small insurance markets with duplicated efforts.  This is a huge reason we can actually save money and cover everyone at the same time. 

Medicare for all is not only the right step from a moral and human perspective, it’s also the most conservative approach to containing the cost of administering health care.  The market approach to health insurance and pricing of care is by all accounts a massive failure, as many privatized forms of delivering basic needs eventually become.  ",somecallmemike,e8n51fu,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8n0jmx,SandersForPresident
Easy enough..,RootlessBoots,e8n4tf6,SandersForPresident
"He’s just mad that his homeland of Slovenia completely sold out on the former Yugoslavian Socialism he was born and raised in. Slovenia is now one of, if not the most prosperous constituent country of former Yugoslavia. Peak neoliberalism",1999-2017,e8njzu4,SandersForPresident
"Wow, making fun of someone who's asking a question, very cool of those guys.  Hard to find a more miserable group than that subreddit, it's like they're trying to compete with the donald.",Terrible_Inspection,e8on5e2,SandersForPresident
Thank you.,FinntheFlobot,e8m985a,SandersForPresident
You got downvoted. Russians are putting double time in apparently,Skeetronic,e8mmg9t,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #2&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8n0w4z,SandersForPresident
I don't believe government should tell you what to do if you not hurting anyone else. Weed should be legal but not a big fan on big government control ,cjbest85,e8msrlx,SandersForPresident
this is the most hilarious fucking thing i've seen in weeks,PM_Me_Riven_Hentai_,e8myo2l,SandersForPresident
One of my favorite gifs. That little chuckle shrug at the end is amazing. ,magikarpe_diem,e8n0ehk,SandersForPresident
"There's also probably a lack of military-industrial complex present in VT.

I'm not saying cutting their budget is wrong. I'm not saying there shouldn't stand up to them, all of that. I'm just saying that there's a confluence of reasons that allows him to do that.",Islero47,e8musim,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8nfja3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8nwcqw,SandersForPresident
"Is this being reported on? That’s awesome, and a huge step forward in remedying that horrendously appalling situation. ",Mijamahmad,e8n7ki7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8muko2,SandersForPresident
Defense funding would literally have to be more than halfed before it began cutting into our current conflicts.,souprize,e8nhy6w,SandersForPresident
"Defense funding is a social program. Provides jobs, training, education, and housing for millions of Americans. Creates the necessary conditions in a global economy for safe international business. 

Could we pay less and accomplish the same amount? Probably. There is always a bit of grifting in public spending, but reducing funding doesn’t reduce the inefficiencies and kickbacks and corruption within a public program. 

Same with spending. Giving more money to schools will help somewhat, but if it is spent on football equipment while teachers are forced to buy books — it wasn’t really worth it. 

Effective management of the funding >>> simply reducing or increasing it ",balloptions,e8mue43,SandersForPresident
"We can do both and more co-currently. The FDA is currently accepting comments about cannabis reclassification [here.](https://www.regulations.gov/comment?D=FDA_FRDOC_0001-8787)  

Contact your reps and tell them to support:

[S.3174 - Marijuana Freedom and Opportunity Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3174)  

>Congratulations to Canada for becoming the first industrialized nation to legalize cannabis. In my view, it is long past time that we in the United States end the federal prohibition on marijuana. Too many Americans, disproportionately people of color, have seen their lives destroyed because they have criminal records as a result of marijuana use. If we are serious about criminal justice reform, we need to take the important and overdue step of decriminalizing marijuana. There is no reason we should be classifying marijuana as a Schedule I drug next to heroin.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157389156497908)

In the House:  
[H.R.1227 - Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/1227)  
[H.R.1841 - Regulate Marijuana Like Alcohol Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/1841)  
[H.R.4815 - Marijuana Justice Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/4815) ",Chartis,e8mhue5,SandersForPresident
I for one call for an unconditional surrender to drugs. They beat us fair and square.,Victernus,e8mscbw,SandersForPresident
"They would just blame it on the Democrats, like they've been doing this entire time. ",Selfie_Germain,e8mn54n,SandersForPresident
Not even then.  Obama Era policies tried to save #MAGAbomber's house and Mr. Florids sent him an explosive. ,ArlidansSon,e8mi3it,SandersForPresident
Most Trump supporters are actually wealthy white people. A lot of poor people who are disenfranchised or don't have time to vote live in those states.,souprize,e8nhxc6,SandersForPresident
"Ultimately yeah, we don't need one. ",souprize,e8p9ma9,SandersForPresident
"Lol. Russia is *definitely* the sole source of our problems and not our long history of jingoistic imperialism, white supremacy, slavery, and our plutocratic founders. Nationalism is *definitely* going  to save us and not just thrust us closer to nuclear war and farther from solving our boiling oceans.

Fuck off shitlib.",souprize,e8ni8l0,SandersForPresident
"Audit the military?  Yes please!  Shit, I'd watch a livestream of that.",DoctorBagels,e8mos6e,SandersForPresident
"No I think they're basing that on the knowledge that our defense budget has massively inflated to a frankly insane point, with very little of that money going to help actual soldiers and service members.

We spend more than the next 10 countries combined. It's absurd and isn't in any way necessary for our safety. It's strictly to keep up our system of being the global bully, and military contractors/weapons manufacturers pockets full. And that isn't even counting the black budget.",mw19078,e8mmll5,SandersForPresident
What about it?,tronpalmer,e8n6f2t,SandersForPresident
"[Bernie don't flinch.](https://lasvegassun.com/news/2016/jan/08/bullet-hole-found-at-sanders-campaign-hq-on-day-ca/) That's partly why his Secret Service code name is [Intrepid.](https://i.imgur.com/rzHJ5BG.jpg)  

>the political world is changing and that millions of Americans are outraged at establishment politics and establishment economics. The people of this country want a government which represents all of us, not just the 1%, super-PACs and wealthy campaign contributors.  

-Bernie's statement on the matter",Chartis,e8mp60m,SandersForPresident
That's not the total budget. Discretionary spending is outside of stuff that we have to pay such as interest on dept.. ,Jasperj14,e8oa469,SandersForPresident
"The federal budget was 3.8T in 2015, of which 1.1T was discretionary(your link), 1.11T is about 30% of 3.8T, and 54% of that 30% amounts to roughly 16% of the federal budget spent on the military. The military is a comparatively small drop in the big bucket that is the federal budget. ",SmellyApartment,e8oex2c,SandersForPresident
"But but but.... I’m AEROSPACE.  My entire industry is like 90 percent death and destruction.  

What are we going to do now that you’re cutting that?  

But seriously, a lot of skills in specialized heavy industry are surprisingly untransferrable.  You know, ballistic armor plate welding, stealth material processing, etc, etc.  Probably the main reason why the MI complex is hard to axe; its keeping a lot of people afloat.  The industry is huge, and the corresponding portion of the economy is massive.  

I’m afraid if we swarm it’s a lotta people going hungry for a while.  Take that on top of automation and we’ve got a real job market shift here, one that’s gonna leave a lotta people in the dust.  

Not saying that what Sanders is doing isn’t right, it’s just... there’s heavy costs for this.  

Hopefully the college education public boost will alleviate it a bit.  ",vader5000,e8mxy78,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8mn48d,SandersForPresident
"You're right. It wasn't a vote.

It was just lobbying to get the F-35 program in his state. The same tactics that Ron Paul used when he voted against a budget he knew would pass 100% and then earmarked billions of it to go to Texas.

Not very principled or upstanding when Ron Paul did it. Nor when Bernie Sanders did it.

And his defense is lame too. ""It creates jobs."" That's the argument for literally anything. You can create jobs with the MIC. Wow. How novel. You can create it with oil and coal too. Doesn't mean we should prop that up. 

But he knows he can't do that. It's just sad he has no problem taking *other* politicians to task for doing the same thing he does. ",amateurstatsgeek,e8ns94g,SandersForPresident
"That’s not true. In 2010 as a compromise with Republicans, Obama agreed to a 2 year extension then in late 2012 he managed to get rates increased for families making more than $450,000 and individuals making $400,000. ",PM_ME_YOUR_WIRING,e8o18r5,SandersForPresident
It's almost like effective democracy!,Funny_witty_username,e8mqshr,SandersForPresident
"Well said. Bernie standing up for and [marching with labor](https://i.imgur.com/0TljmzV.jpg) is damn inspiring. His policy is on point too.  

S.???? - ""[The most sweeping climate change legislation ever introduced.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be)""

[S.3542 - Too Big To Fail, Too Big Too Exist Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3542/text)  

[S.3410 - Stop Bad Employers by Zeroing Out Subsidies Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3410)  


[S.3498 - Democracy Day Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3498/text)  

[S.3271 - No Money Bail Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3271)  

[S.3147 - Social Security Administration Fairness Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3147)  

[S.2810 - Workplace Democracy Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2810)  

[S.2691 - Opioid Crisis Accountability Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2691)  

[S.2165 - Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands Equitable Rebuild Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2165)  

[S.2011 - Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2011)

[S.1804 - Medicare for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)  

[S.1723 - Strengthening Veterans Health Care Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1723)

[S.1590 - Employ Young Americans Now Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1590)  

[S.1564 - Guaranteed Paid Vacation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/senate-bill/1564)

[S.1441 - Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1441)  

[S.1242 - Raise the Wage Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1242)  

[S.1082 - United States Employee Ownership Bank Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1082)  

[S.1081 - WORK Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1081)  

[S.1076 - Keep Our Pension Promises Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1076)  

[S.806 - College for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/806)  

[S.805 - Inclusive Prosperity Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/805)  

[S.586 - Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/586)  

[S.469 - Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/469)  

[S.427 - Social Security Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/427)",Chartis,e8mr1ee,SandersForPresident
Too many progressive elections is my sort of problem. But this one is special. It's our last chance to say Fuck You to Paul Ryan in a really meaningful way. So if you can't go knock on doors please send him the message with a few bucks sent Randy's way. They're both worth it.,Chartis,e8mrxyi,SandersForPresident
"Depends on the viewpoint:  

* [His social media engagement is double all other Senate candidates on across the board combined](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JHhbWwAApurW.jpg)  

* [75% from his consituents](https://pbs.twimg.com/media  
/Dp2JGWzWwAAqptt.jpg)  

* [57% nationally](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JE63XgAAMy9w.jpg)  

* [And he's showing to be the strongest candidate compared to Trump.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqZWEGaXgAEGNpy.png)  

For a collection of standard polls [see here.] (https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/other/sanders_favorableunfavorable-5263.html)",Chartis,e8n5e2y,SandersForPresident
"According to [this](https://morningconsult.com/2018/10/10/americas-most-and-least-popular-senators-10-10/), Bernie's approval rating is 63% and disapproval rating is 30%. Only 7% are in the undecided/don't know category which is the smallest out of all senators.",AwesmePersn,e8n67kj,SandersForPresident
"Republicans actively do their best to hurt everyone. Democrats try to do the right thing but try to compromise and ""heal the divide."" They're way better but not actually, y'know, good.",captainAwesomePants,e8mpzuq,SandersForPresident
Consumer protections bureau,PostPostModernism,e8na50x,SandersForPresident
"I have zero confidence middle America will stop voting Republican ever. The Republicans fuck them over routinely to benefit the 1%,and they still vote Republican. You'd have to send Paul Ryan to the Midwest with a flamethrower to burn their farms and towns down around them before they'd stop voting Republican. ",DeusExLibrus,e8mxhm9,SandersForPresident
I never said anything about the republicans.,CinnamonJ,e8mcdi6,SandersForPresident
They certainly talk a big game about those issues.  ,CinnamonJ,e8m9j4e,SandersForPresident
"Once they unify against lobbying and corporate campaign donors, until then they are just as corrupt as the Republicans.",a_metal_head,e8mv4gp,SandersForPresident
"Not in IL they sure as fuck don't

Dems are 99.9% talk just to not be the GOP in my 26 years of living in IL",Toast-Orange,e8mjpcz,SandersForPresident
"Don’t forget that Bernie is an independent. 

Most of those things (min wage, paid vacations, paternity/maternity leave, universal healthcare) were things that the Democratic power players had to get bullied in to supporting because their hemming and hawing was getting called out by people who don’t necessarily identify as a democrat.

Is it good that the dems have caved and are now pretending like they supported those things all along? Sure. . . But if people are too partisan to look at the establishment democrats critically simply because the republicans are worse, the democrats will go right back to not really giving a fuck about progressives. ",Beginning_End,e8mv9x9,SandersForPresident
But I seriously don’t think they will. There’s a chance with the house but I think the republicans will make gains in the senate. ,tranquil45,e8n4efr,SandersForPresident
">The American people have a very clear choice in the upcoming elections. 

>1. Donald Trump & the Republican leadership in Congress, who made throwing 32 million Americans off of health insurance their number one priority in Washington. 

>2. ""[Medicare for All](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)"" supported by 16 senators and [122 House members.](https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All) It would guarantee everyone could get the health care they need without going into debt at far lower cost than the current dysfunctional system.  



>* [70% of Americans](http://pnhp.org/blog/2018/08/23/reutersipsos-poll-70-percent-support-medicare-for-all/) support expanding and improving Medicare to cover everyone 
>* the pharmaceutical industry charges us, by far, the highest prices in the world. 1 out of 5 Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe  
>* Medicare is the [most popular](http://www.asaging.org/sites/default/files/images/Brodie-Hamel-Norton-figure1.png), successful, & cost-effective health insurance program

---  

>As president, Trump has made our health care system worse:  

>* He proposed a $1 trillion cut to Medicaid, a $500 billion cut to Medicare, & a $72 billion cut to the Social Security disability fund  
>* As a result of his sabotage of the Affordable Care Act, 13 million more Americans will become uninsured over the next decade while millions more have seen their premiums rise  
>* His administration is working alongside 20 Republican state attorneys general to end the protection that the Affordable Care Act now guarantees to people with pre-existing conditions

 
---  


>When we eliminate:  

>* private insurance premiums
>* deductibles
>* co-payments

>the average American will pay substantially less for health care:    

>1. [A recent study by RAND](https://www.politico.com/states/f/?id=00000164-f261-d556-a1ec-ff759d100001) found that moving to a Medicare for All system in New York would save a family with an income of $185,000 or less about $3,000 per person a year, on average. 
>2. Even the projections from the conservative Mercatus Center suggest that the average American could [save about $6,000 under Medicare for All](https://preview.redd.it/568es2zlhnr11.png?width=1017&auto=webp&s=c1a59603cc8b477f71a4a041a9f50db11acaca41) over a 10-year period.

>It would also benefit the business community:  

>* Small and medium sized businesses would be free to focus on their core business goals 
>* Workers would not have to stay at jobs they dislike just because their employer provides decent health insurance

---  

>Trump is grossly distorting what the Medicare for All legislation does:  

>* It would not cut benefits for seniors on Medicare. Millions of seniors today cannot afford [dental care](https://i.redd.it/dt2xqpiseku11.jpg), vision care or hearing aids because Medicare does not cover them. Our proposal does. 
>* It would eliminate deductibles and copays for seniors and significantly lower the cost of prescription drugs. 
>* It allows seniors and all Americans to see the doctors they want, not the doctors in their insurance networks.  
>* Trump claims that Medicare for All is not affordable. That is nonsense. What we cannot afford is:  

>  * to continue [spending almost twice as much per capita](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DFwP1nPVwAEWDVt.jpg) on health care as any other country on Earth. 
>  * the $28,000 it currently costs to provide health insurance for the average family of 4.
>  * to have 30 million Americans with no health insurance & even more who are under-insured with high deductibles and high co-payments. 
>  * to have millions of Americans get sicker than they should, and in some cases die, because they can’t afford to go to the doctor.  

>If every major country on earth can guarantee health care to all and achieve better health outcomes, while [spending substantially less](https://i.imgur.com/LqzwyrX.jpg) per capita than we do, it is absurd for anyone to suggest that the United States of America cannot do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 11^th '18](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/10/11/bernie-sanders-donald-trump-lies-medicare-all-health-care-column/1594863002/)",Chartis,e8n054u,SandersForPresident
"It might surprise you that we already spent more on healthcare than defense. Defense is approximately 20% of the budget, while Medicare and medicaid are 30% despite covering so few people. 

I think the confusion comes from over half the discretionary spending going toward military, but ultimately discretionary spending is a fraction of our total spending. 

EDIT: source https://www.cbo.gov/publication/53624",237FIF,e8n0htt,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8n0xfe,SandersForPresident
"Don't forget [Ballot Measures](https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives/) <--- Our Revolution Endorsements please check other sidebar guides too.

[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1056670125909250053)

* Today, I would like to endorse some of the ballot measures in states across the country. 

 California: Proposition 10  
 Florida: Amendment 4  
 Colorado: YES on Amendment 73 and Proposition 112 and NO on Amendment 74  
 Massachusetts: Question 1  
 Washington: Initiative 1631  

  Thread 👇

* Currently California cities and towns aren't permitted to pass rent control measures to address the affordable housing crisis. That should change. Municipalities should have the freedom to deal with the decline in affordable housing and rising rents. Let's pass Prop 10.

* How is it possible that in Colorado a majority of school districts can only afford to keep their schools open 4 days a week? How are teachers paid wages so low that some have to work two jobs to survive? Our kids deserve a high-quality education. Amendment 73 is a no-brainer.

* Colorado Amendment 74, pushed by the fossil fuel industry, seems to be one of the most dangerous propositions in the country. It could open the flood gates for oil, gas and other corporate interests to bankrupt the state. This extremely dangerous amendment must be defeated.

* Given the crisis we face with climate change, in my view we should move toward a total ban on fracking. At a minimum, it seems obvious that we must protect communities from the environmental damage that fracking causes. In my view Colorado voters should support 112.

* Florida has the opportunity to re-enfranchise 1.4 million formerly incarcerated people to fully participate as citizens. Passing Amendment 4 is an important step for both voting rights and criminal justice reform.

* Question 1 in Massachusetts would set a safe maximum on the number of patients nurses can treat, so that patients can receive the quality care they deserve. Nurses are behind this initiative, and I trust them when it comes to knowing what is best for their patients.

* With the recent report from the IPCC noting the drastic action required to prevent the worst impacts of climate change, Initiative 1631 is an important step forward for the people of Washington State.

* I want to thank the many activists I met with who informed me about these important ballot measures nationwide which can help us create a fairer and just society. We must rise to the historic occasion and make sure we have record voter turnout so we can transform this nation.
















",Chartis,e8nzcsw,SandersForPresident
Yeah I'm looking at this post wondering if they agree or disagree or what it even means. I guess its a circle jerk? Idk.,RootlessBoots,e8opsfc,SandersForPresident
Forgive me: How can you tell you’ve specifically been downvoted?,dontcallmesweetheart,e8mn5yi,SandersForPresident
This is what I don’t get about republican voters. They claim to be about freedom but then vote for the party who wants to legislate what people do with their bodies and which consenting adults are allowed to marry which other consenting adults. Its also the party who wants to continue giving disgusting amounts of government welfare to huge corporations. It’s madness.,ariagrayx,e8mtipy,SandersForPresident
"not as good as this one.

https://i.imgur.com/PgZtz0j.gifv",LukaUrushibara,e8n4si4,SandersForPresident
The boss chuckle,tp736,e8n3ftk,SandersForPresident
"Yeah it's pretty dang peaceful here.
Also I pay 1 dollar a month for my insulin, thanks to VT Medicaid.

Go Bernie!!",Fat_Mermaid,e8mwqxx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8nft4l,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8mzgtt,SandersForPresident
I'm down. ,capoony147,e8nkt4k,SandersForPresident
"\> Defense funding is a social program. Provides jobs, training, education, and housing for millions of Americans. 

&#x200B;

We would be better off employing those people directly than lining the pockets of the military industrial owners. 

&#x200B;

\> Creates the necessary conditions in a global economy for safe international business. 

&#x200B;

Imperialism creates the necessary conditions to exploit the third world. It helps increase profits by opening up third world markets by force. It's morally indefensible. 

&#x200B;

\> Could we pay less and accomplish the same amount? 

&#x200B;

We want to pay less \*\*and accomplish less\*\* because what we're accomplishing in this case is mass murder. ",Rakonas,e8myfhg,SandersForPresident
"According to that logic literally any government spending is a social program. It's just about the most cynical justification imaginable for enabling large-scale attacks against civilian targets, to argue that bombing civilians is in any way justified because it puts food on bomb-makers' tables.

Because the bomb-maker could be doing literally anything else and it would still hold. Instead of paying for a bloated military-industrial complex that employs a bunch of people, we could pay for *anything* else and observe the same effect. Any government spending at this scale will provide jobs, education, housing and training in service of whatever the spending is for. So let's get all of those benefits in pursuit of superior education, healthcare, and infrastructure rather than acts of terrorism.

Same logic applies to the people who justify the war on drugs by observing that it creates a lot of jobs in law enforcement. ""But it creates jobs"" is the justification that's invoked when there is no real justification available.",wuethar,e8n0txp,SandersForPresident
Amen brotha,JesseBrown447,e8nipqu,SandersForPresident
"Well as long as it keeps fooling people they'll keep doing it, unfortunately. ",mw19078,e8mnoa3,SandersForPresident
"exactly, someone tried to save him. I'm saying stop doing that. Let them run themselves intot he ground, with hold money, let thee states fund their own programs. Just turn every republican dirty play back on them.",LyrEcho,e8mix75,SandersForPresident
"> We spend more than the next 10 countries combined. It's absurd and isn't in any way necessary for our safety.

I'd like to offer an important point in this regard, as well: just because American exceptionalism is an ongoing atrocity (which it is) doesn't mean that America isn't, or at least that we *can't be*, a net force for good.

This is important precisely because there is no such thing as ending empire. There is only the change of the guard. If we step aside on purpose, who takes the reins? Russia and China.

So American exceptionalism needs to die, but we still need to give careful thought to American Better-Than-The-Alternativism, and focus as much on applying our might *correctly* rather than on whether it should exist.

That said, you're right about the math, mostly. It *is* nice to know that we could flatten that wannabe Tsar if he tried anything too drastic.",TheChance,e8mx8v4,SandersForPresident
http://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9s512m/paul_ryan_if_we_lose_the_senate_do_you_know_who/e8n69re,datareinidearaus,e8n6i6o,SandersForPresident
"I think infrastructure & climate change offer good opportunities in this regard. And agree that College For All will help greatly. When it comes to to automation I know that UBI is often brought up. UBI doesn't directly create wealth. [Money is made by the treasury when an issuing government authorizes a budget.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/e80lj35/) That enables production of the currency by underutilized workers, resources, & production capacity. If there is less production and more purchasers the supply becomes limited and inflation occurs. Tying UBI to mandated corporate leases of publicly owned robotics & software automation used for commerce would work, as would [a federal job guarantee](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9qp7nl/though_warren_is_an_ally_of_many_progressive/e8bdimf/) though that's currently limited to $15/h (tied to raises in all American wages).",Chartis,e8myian,SandersForPresident
I didn't down vote lol,bgilb,e8mo37m,SandersForPresident
Because you were mistaken you may want to double check your assertions. This only says Leahy lobbied the Air Force. It also says Bernie supported the basing of the program (which was going to be somewhere). And it points to court documents that show the Senators were misled. Bernie's statement about jobs comes after the decision was made while extending awareness that diplomatic efforts were ongoing concerning legitimate noise and environmental efforts.,Chartis,e8nvq10,SandersForPresident
[I love democracy!](https://i.imgur.com/2x4ntgu.jpg),NYRpuckhead,e8mvc1o,SandersForPresident
Ugggghhh. Sources....  how dare you. ,twfl,e8nnhh8,SandersForPresident
As someone in his district I have to say I'm not overly optimistic about Bryce winning. This district is gerrymandered very purposely to include a lot of rural Walworth County voters and exclude a lot of progressive Rock County voters. I know a lot of people are watching this election and cheering for Randy Bryce but a lot of this district is Farmers Only demographics.,hall_residence,e8na1zi,SandersForPresident
Thank you for this.,tp736,e8n6etm,SandersForPresident
"Hence what I’ve been reading about Bernie and reforming the DNC from the inside.  Once that gets fixed, maybe we can work on reforming the RNC next",OaklandHellBent,e8mu6rm,SandersForPresident
"""Heal the divide"" is neoliberal-speak for, ""Don't worry billionaire donors, we have no intention delivering on the lies we told to working Americans to get elected.""",middlefingerpuppet,e8mw7lf,SandersForPresident
[Yep.  There’s another.](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/policy/economy/trump-cfpb-moves-to-rework-key-part-of-obama-payday-lending-regulation?_amp=true),OaklandHellBent,e8nacyg,SandersForPresident
The fact is that repubs own the fed govt right now.  Lock stock barrel.  Any political talk until that changes will always devolve into bringing the current power into it.,OaklandHellBent,e8mcp2i,SandersForPresident
"For the next week I'm doin' my darnedest to rally votes but [it's an uphill slog](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) when the establishment doesn't come out and loudly tie themselves to progressive policies like [Medicare For All.](https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All)  

>We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  

>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  

>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

",Chartis,e8m9tr6,SandersForPresident
"Talk and present legislation that can't be passed because we're in the minority. Come on, dude. We're fighting for our place within a coalition. You can blame the neoliberal camp for marginalizing us, but you can't blame them for the GOP's scorched-earth tactics.

I'd be happy to draw a line from the Third Way campaign in '92 to the neocons in '00-08 and thence to the Tea Party, but I'd also have to draw a line back from the Clinton campaign to post-Carter deregulation and the ""taxation is theft"" ethos hitting the Republican mainstream.

It's like blaming a clawless hammer for the presence of nails. Just because you can't use it to remove the nails doesn't mean it's responsible for their existence in the first place.",TheChance,e8mfqnn,SandersForPresident
And have put forth legislation and laws forward to do these things.,DefiantInformation,e8mf225,SandersForPresident
Muh both sides in full force.,DefiantInformation,e8mywd5,SandersForPresident
That's on you folks then. You need to elect better Democrats.,DefiantInformation,e8mkobs,SandersForPresident
"I'm sorry, but Durbin and Duckworth are far from bad Democrats. I know it's a popular Rauner line to whine about Pritzker and Madigan (which is hilariously out of step, as millennials certainly don't see Madigan as the boogieman other generations here do) to distract from the IL GOP's issues, but come on now.

Literally the entire GOP here in IL is just ""DAE Mike Madigan?!"" constantly.",wsoxfan1214,e8msbrh,SandersForPresident
The house will almost certainly flip. The senate probably won't but it could happen. ,kappasquad420,e8nkemn,SandersForPresident
"I think they're basically making fun of the idea of a guide to vote against Republicans, since they believe it's so easy- you just go to the polls and pull the D lever and your job is done.

I wouldn't put too much thought into it though, you asked a good question and got mostly good responses here.  Some states actually don't designate party on the ballot and in some cases, the candidate you want is an independent (like Bernie).  So a guide is very helpful.",Terrible_Inspection,e8oqv48,SandersForPresident
"When I edited my comment, I was at -4 karma. People have since upvoted me :)",FinntheFlobot,e8mz6mi,SandersForPresident
Well I upvoted you and the arrow said 1. That means someone downvoted you from the default 1 to 0 or my upvote would have said 2. Simple fact that you stated being downvoted to negatives usually means another group is intentionally going in and trying to bury the comments.,Skeetronic,e8mncmn,SandersForPresident
"I dont agree with a lot of both parties, I don't always vote just for gop",cjbest85,e8mtppe,SandersForPresident
"I can't tell, is this real??",Sorsly,e8newuk,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8nfvh3,SandersForPresident
As am I but I highly doubt these gains will be met with electoral politics. Not before we start dying due to boiling seawater.,souprize,e8pa0g5,SandersForPresident
"Most of our military spending is *not* mass murder. You’re thinking of operations in the Middle East, which are not the largest source of our spending. 

We have personnel and resources scattered across the globe protecting our allies, providing them training, and ensuring we maintain a safe buffer for our allies from “enemies” like Russia and China. 

You’re really ignorant about what the military does :/ ",balloptions,e8myuer,SandersForPresident
"Yeah that’s great and all for the environmental engineers.  But what about us?  The nuclear engineers, the aerospace people, the mechanical, the people who currently make missiles and tanks and aircraft carriers?  We are all going to be out of jobs here.  And there’s quite a number of us.  

Honestly, if the US military budget is slashed, I might be looking at a pretty bad economic future myself.  

I don’t want to switch careers.  I grew up wanting to build aircraft and rockets and satellites.  

If it weren’t for the federal money, a lot of research labs, national labs, tech programs, and big companies would go under.  And honestly, I’m worried about that.  

Maybe I’m like the coal miners, who picked the wrong time to pick up their family’s tradition.  Sigh.  I guess... I dunno, I am worried.  ",vader5000,e8mytej,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8mpvc2,SandersForPresident
"The RNC would have to reform itself to just to compete with this reformed democratic party. Now I'm imagining a political system where two parties actually care about their voters... and it's feels pretty utopian. Not to be cynical, I'll definitely be supporting the effort.",Zekholgai,e8mx6gm,SandersForPresident
That’s why I think it’s ridiculous private entities can have so much control over the legislature through donations. It’s tantamount to legal bribery. How is any regular person supposed to compete with that? ,Arickettsf16,e8n135j,SandersForPresident
"[Thank you.](https://i.imgur.com/I7TXNR9.png) And [those like you.](https://i.imgur.com/YqbDGvi.jpg)  

I also used to be [a conservative.](https://i.imgur.com/A3HbiwA.jpg) But [the rigged system](https://i.imgur.com/fQUdmZu.png) didn't make [fiscal sense at all.](https://i.imgur.com/XeXD1d3.jpg)   

Then I saw [the real deal](https://i.imgur.com/nErfHDf.jpg) in [action.](https://i.imgur.com/EqZwYfH.jpg) There's strength in [his leadership.](https://i.imgur.com/9fee9v3.png) His actions & ideas are [right on point.](https://i.imgur.com/flB9914.jpg) 

That's when I decided to [put my efforts](https://i.imgur.com/CPe7e1r.jpg) into [American democracy](https://i.imgur.com/SNJG2iB.jpg). I trust [the path](https://i.imgur.com/T8Hu9Vs.jpg) he's laid out, it's [a future I'm proud to fight for.](https://i.imgur.com/h9HwjFM.jpg)

[#Vote](https://i.imgur.com/MGWFyOT.jpg)  ",Chartis,e8mdul3,SandersForPresident
Our place within a coalition?  We don’t have a place in the democratic party because the democratic party is not for us.  The democratic party is the graveyard of progressive political movements.,CinnamonJ,e8mgdjd,SandersForPresident
"LOL yeah nice democrat president they picked this time eh?

At least IL has produced someone who made it to the white house inctead of whining about HC ""Stealing it"" every 4 years",Toast-Orange,e8mod4c,SandersForPresident
"Madigan and Rauner are both morons.

Duckworth is a hero but she hasn't done much of anything. Durbin is much the same.

The house in IL is worthless whens the last time they did ANYTHING?",Toast-Orange,e8mu7df,SandersForPresident
"Ok gotcha. I get that part of it. By the time I saw your comment, mine was sitting at 18. I was all, “why can’t I tell if I’ve been downvoted...What Is This Magic?!?!”",dontcallmesweetheart,e8mp7hi,SandersForPresident
"> Simple fact that you stated being downvoted to negatives usually means another group is intentionally going in and trying to bury the comments.

I think that's a bit ridiculous.

It could just be a random person. I wouldn't assume Russia when it was someone downvoted from 1 to 0.",greg19735,e8mrhzr,SandersForPresident
Your post history tells us otherwise,ariagrayx,e8mtrx3,SandersForPresident
"this is the original video.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M41aZX5ijVM

it is edited with the gif bob posted.",LukaUrushibara,e8nezh1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ng4x3,SandersForPresident
"\> We have personnel and resources scattered across the globe protecting  our allies, providing them training, and ensuring we maintain a safe  buffer for our allies from “enemies” like Russia and China.

&#x200B;

""Protecting our allies"" [https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-42192571](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-42192571) 

&#x200B;

""Providing them training"" [https://www.thenation.com/article/time-for-a-us-apology-to-el-salvador/](https://www.thenation.com/article/time-for-a-us-apology-to-el-salvador/) except also in half the other latin american countries. 

&#x200B;

\> You’re really ignorant about what the military does :/

&#x200B;

Read ""War is a Racket"" by General Smedley Butler.",Rakonas,e8mzsde,SandersForPresident
How much did bush’s Middle East mission cost again? ,Bitchimacow1,e8n69aa,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, I wonder if there's value in a militarily weaker US for global stability.

I'd love to see less sabre rattling with China and Russia.  As much as we may differ in opinions with them, they are legitimate governments with a real stake in their neighbourhoods that needs to be considered.  We wasted a lot of manpower, money, and goodwill in the Cold War, and I see no reason to repeat it.

I'd love to see less adventures in the middle east-- whether or not we do everything by the book, we're a terrible judge of who to back and what ends up happening after we leave.",Bounty1Berry,e8ndhfk,SandersForPresident
"Well then, let's triple the budget for NASA for those whose skill set is too specialized (though I think there's a lot of cross versatility to be had) and who are unable to retrain. The cost of needless war is far too high a price to not put best efforts into remedying the situation.",Chartis,e8mz93a,SandersForPresident
You are a very combative person to talk to!,bgilb,e8mqihx,SandersForPresident
"In theory, PACs were the answer. People with a common cause pool their money so their interests can be represented on the same level. Didn't really work out though",TOMATO_ON_URANUS,e8ng8fv,SandersForPresident
">Recipients of money from firms in favor of network neutrality, such as Netflix or Google, whose access to users could be affected, were considerably more likely to vote in favor of Markey’s amendment: Every additional $1,000 dollars decreased the odds of voting against by 24%. Similarly, contributions from firms opposed to network neutrality were also telling: every 
$1,000 increased the chances of a vote against by 2.6%. The more conservative a representative was, the more likely he or she was to vote against network neutrality.

-[Fifty Shades of Green: High Finance, Political Money, and the U.S. Congress](http://rooseveltinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/FiftyShadesofGreen_0517.pdf), May 2017

>The American public actually have little influence over the policies our government adopts.. America's claims to being a democratic society are seriously threatened.. Not only do ordinary citizens not have uniquely substantial power over policy decisions; they have little or no independent influence on policy at all.. economic elites stand out as quite influential more so than any other set of actors studied here.. both individual economic elites and organized interest groups (including corporations, largely owned and controlled by wealthy elites) play a substantial part in affecting public policy, but the general public has little or no independent influence.  

-[Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens]( https://scholar.princeton.edu/sites/default/files/mgilens/files/gilens_and_page_2014_-testing_theories_of_american_politics.doc.pdf
), Sept 2014  

---  
  
>billionaires have poured huge amounts of money into the political process. In return, they are getting policies that serve their interests at the expense of working families, the environment, and our national security...

>in the United States today, a handful of billionaires and the corporations they run exercise extraordinary power over our economic, political, and social life...  

>This world belongs to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.  

-Bernie, [June 21^st '18](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)

>Our job is to fight for a future in which public policy and new technology and innovation work to benefit all of the people, not just the few...

>our job is to fight back against the coordinated effort, strongly supported by the president and funded by oligarchs like the Koch brothers, to make it harder to for American citizens — often people of color, poor people, and young people — to vote. Not only do oligarchs want to buy elections, but voter suppression is a key element of their plan to maintain power...  

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other.  

-Bernie, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)  

[@BernieSanders](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055983885476073472)

* We have the most important midterm election in the modern history of the United States coming up in 9 days. We must do everything we can between now and then to elect strong progressive leaders from coast to coast.

[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055259708053803008)

* Young people are the most progressive generation in American history. If you vote, you will transform this country.
  
[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055507453310320641)  


* 9 days.

 Let's do everything we can these next 9 days to make sure we have historic voter turnout this election.
 
 When millions of us stand together, there is nothing we cannot accomplish.  ",Chartis,e8n23ph,SandersForPresident
"For me the path from repub started in the 90’s and completed during the Newt Gingrich timeframe.  Been drifting “left” ever since.  Was a dem by Obama, and drifted further until I voted for Bernie in the primary in 2016.",OaklandHellBent,e8mgxlc,SandersForPresident
"Aaaaand we have an outrage-over-progress thread. Whee.

It's *not* a party. It's a coalition of what *would* be parties, and the sooner you get with the program, the better our gains.",TheChance,e8mjuzt,SandersForPresident
"I have no idea what you're even arguing anymore. First I was talking about Democrats in Congress, then you decided to talk about more local things, and now we're onto Presidential candidates? What?",DefiantInformation,e8moteg,SandersForPresident
Ah. fair. It still says +1 on my comp. I thin with many of the political subs they hide the score so there’s not bandwagoning,Skeetronic,e8mpb3n,SandersForPresident
"You’re wrong though. There no reason for someone to say the Sky is blue in a thread about about daytime sky pictures and get downvotes without another agenda. If I say colorado has legal weed here why would I get downvoted... 

You may be right it might not be Russia. It could be some half brained moron that listens to their inbred’s political advice that was promoted by Russia ",Skeetronic,e8mrq9k,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ng7gl,SandersForPresident
"By “providing training” I didn’t mean the CIAs fucked up regime-changing covert ops, I meant the literal military drills we conduct with ex. South Korea. 

And one dude raping some girl doesn’t vilify the whole military, come on dude. ",balloptions,e8n13eb,SandersForPresident
Still likely pales in comparison to total military spending. ,balloptions,e8n8xad,SandersForPresident
"Let’s see... tripling the budget for NASA will yield us uh... 55 billion dollars.   

Our last year’s military budget is uh.... 590 billion dollars.  

To be fair, we could probably maintain our current levels of strength and budget for like 540 billion dollars and pull some of that money into NASA.  We could also build a Space Force (God I hate that name), which to be fair is a bit more efficient in a few respects, and is useful enough to warrant its existence.  It’s the Air Force grumbling over jurisdiction that’s slowing it down.  

The thing is, there’s no need to spike the military, but we could just maintain most of our current budget and lop off a few loose ends.  

You’re not wrong though, there’s far too much death and destruction around.  Though I blame the people in power, not the people in business.  

I just wanted to point out that there’s a lot of money and science coming out of defense research, and a decent amount of that science ends up in good places helping people.  It’s not a great thing, but there’s a surprising amount of good behind researching the next deadliest weapon.  Let’s just, promise not to use it.  ",vader5000,e8mzpy0,SandersForPresident
"The sooner you realize the democrats will only act when there is irresistible political momentum in the streets, the sooner you’ll get progress.  If you want progress, it has to organized from the ground up.  The only thing the democrats will help you with is spending your money but don’t take my word for it. Ask labor movement, and the civil rights movement, and the anti-war movement, and the environmental movement...",CinnamonJ,e8mkiz9,SandersForPresident
"For one, it could be a misclick or typo (Z downvotes if you've got RES) 

It could absolutely be some salty republican, trump or paul ryan supporter.

You're absolutely right that the comment shouldn't be downvoted. But to assume Russia or a group is intentionally doing it is a bit over the top. Could just be a random dude. ",greg19735,e8mrwiv,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ngh4n,SandersForPresident
"\> And one dude raping some girl doesn’t vilify the whole military, come on dude. 

Okinawans have been repeatedly victimized by US soldiers for years - they hate the military and want them gone. Those are the allies, that's what we're doing with our military bases. And this is in Japan - it's a similar story elsewhere. 

&#x200B;

\>I  meant the literal military drills we conduct with ex. South Korea. 

&#x200B;

You mean the massive invasion simulations we did for years which continuously aggravated relations with North Korea to drum up conflict and sell more guns? 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

None of the imagined ""good"" that the military does outweighs the evil. If Russia invades Poland or something, we can talk - but we haven't made a place better with our intervention since WW2.",Rakonas,e8n30l1,SandersForPresident
It’s not likely. Otherwise the rest of the world couldn’t afford it. ,Bitchimacow1,e8njbil,SandersForPresident
"R&D is one of America's great strengths. The public funding that develops pharmaceuticals alone is a yuge boon. Death does not, and should not be the prime direction in this regard. Military corps of engineers will greatly benefit the nation if properly directed and IMO should be expanded. $55 billion dollars will likely be able to cover the specialized engineers that can't transfer to infrastructure or climate change, and can't retrain. Further militarizing space is counterproductive and the Air Force is able to do what's necessary as diplomatic efforts progress.  

Constructive efforts are worthwhile to develop. This is a issue that's able to be overcome for layers and layers of short and long term benefits.",Chartis,e8n0q28,SandersForPresident
"“Ask labor movement, and the civil rights movement, and the anti-war movement, and the environmental movement...”

You mean things that were passed under Democrats and imperiled when they were out of power?  

Work place protections have mostly been pushed passed and maintained through the Democrats. 

Civil rights legislation was spearheaded by the Democrats, who knew they’d lose what was until then a major part of their coalition (southern democrats). 

I’ll give you the antiwar movement, but I’d like to hear any arguments that the dems aren’t significantly less in favor of unnecessary wars. 

Nixon may have created the EPA, but supporting legislation was spearheaded by Democrats. 

In recent years, where Republican legislators aren’t acting, SCOTUS decisions have reduced those work place protections, and truncated civil rights legislation. This is why the Supreme Court is important. 

For and the environment the president and congress are doing much in that area. 

The fact of the matter is, Democrats are currently the only vehicle for effecting progressive policy at the national level. ",Gen_Ripper,e8mtujb,SandersForPresident
"This act is getting realllyyy tired and people are starting to catch onto it, sorry to tell you.",wsoxfan1214,e8ms4on,SandersForPresident
Yeah but it’s not. It’s the front line of Putin’s cockholsters actively saying fuck you to our voters. It’s not even disguised well ,Skeetronic,e8ms2y4,SandersForPresident
The US Navy protects vital shipping lanes worldwide.,Horyfrock,e8nbt3w,SandersForPresident
"Ah, but you see, putting down a space force is not about militarizing space.  Think of it more like a Coast Guard for Satellites, tracking debris, harmful radiation, solar flares, that kind of stuff.  Honestly, that should be separate from the Air Force.  

A separate agency will have a stronger voice in Congress, greater leverage for international efforts, and generally more independence to pursue its goals.  

For your last thing tho.  Countries around the world are retreating from the traditional world order in diplomacy.  That’s my other fear; its a spiral of downward armament that ends with someone shooting.  And it’s not just us.  

If we decrease our budget, we face a Europe fearful of Russia and a Pacific fearful of China.  The result is that those countries will pounce on our perceived weakness, and expand their influence to bully and coerce other countries.  

If we arm, then other countries will see us as a worse threat.  So I’m not sure what you speak of when you say diplomatic efforts.  It’s the hope of every incoming president and the failure of each outgoing one.  

So I don’t know.  I don’t have an answer for cutting the military budget.  I just hope that retraining and retooling a 500 billion dollar budget and a trillion dollar industry is as easy as you say, and won’t end in the rest of the world shooting each other as the US pulls out its bases and carriers.  ",vader5000,e8n17i0,SandersForPresident
What act is that?,CinnamonJ,e8msek6,SandersForPresident
Not our job to. ,IllusiveLighter,e8nv1k0,SandersForPresident
">not about militarizing space. 

I haven't seen any legislation in that regard and I don't trust Trump in the least. For now the Air Force & NASA can handle stellar operations.  

If it's a jobs issue that's covered too. If it's about kinetic domination due to fear that must be dialed back. And Bernie's the man to do it. His [Progressives International](https://www.reddit.com/r/GlobalProgress/) effort is a brilliant sign.  

And [America can't hold the world alone](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/jun/25/nine-eu-states-to-sign-off-on-joint-military-intervention-force), especially as we've seen that people like Trump can take charge.   

Audit the Pentagon, re-purpose assets, dial back foreign engagements that destabilize & bring death, develop constructive occupations that are an asset to the USA.  ",Chartis,e8n1q29,SandersForPresident
"You have been not-unreasonably mistaken for a trollshill, not because you're particularly outrageous, but just because you're so attached to that brainless, ""I got angry at the DNC and I don't know why so fuck Democrsts forever"" shit, which is counterproductive.

You know who was here first, for Sanders first, knew these policies in the first place? 3% of Democrats.

3% of *Democrats*.

The rest of you are Johnnies-come-lately, that's a mathematical certainty, so when it comes to these little rage highs, you need to internalize this: we were Dems in the first place, for a reason.",TheChance,e8oa4yi,SandersForPresident
"Whose job is it? Someone has to do it, the stability of the global economy depends on the safe, reliable transportation of goods. ",Horyfrock,e8nyay6,SandersForPresident
Let’s hope it works.  I’ve got my doubts about it though.  ,vader5000,e8n1s9d,SandersForPresident
"> You know who was here first, for Sanders first, knew these policies in the first place? 3% of Democrats. 3% of Democrats.

97% of Democrats were not for sanders and you wonder why I’m telling you not to pin your hopes on the Democratic Party?",CinnamonJ,e8oe9lv,SandersForPresident
Each country has a responsibility to police their own waters. UN can deal with the international stuff. Or companies should hire mercs to defend their cargo. All the US Navy protection does is socialize the costs but privatize the profits. ,IllusiveLighter,e8nyomi,SandersForPresident
"I worry very much about what happens if nothing is done. Thanks for the conversation. For readers who have made it this far here's a pot of gold for the end of the rainbow:  

>We are dealing with $716 billion dollars worth of military budget legislation. That is more than half of the discretionary budget, and yet we will not have a process that allows for amendments to be debated...  

>* in Louisiana they're now going to be cutting food stamps for hungry children

>* schools throughout this country don't have enough money for books or for teacher's salaries  

>this process will allow for no amendments despite the fact that virtually every member of the Senate has concerns about this bill...  

>the $21 *trillion* dollar national debt that we are leaving our kids... when it come to giving trillions of dollars in tax breaks to the top 1% suddenly we don't hear much about...  

>When it comes to spending $716 billion dollars on a defense bill my Republican friends are mute...  

>Medicare For All program is what the American people want. But I'm told we cannot afford that. $716 billion dollars in 1 year for the military we can afford [/s]...  

>I'm told we cannot afford to make public colleges and universities tuition-free...  
>Over half of older Americans have no retirement savings... Republicans... are gonna cut Social Security...
  
>The time is long overdue for us to take a look at the  

>* enormous amount of waste  
>* cost overruns  
>* fraud  
>* financial mismanagement  

>that has plagued the Department of Defense for decades...  

>**I am offering a bi-partisan amendment... Department of Defense... audit.**  

>65% of the American people oppose spending more money on the Department of Defense... yet over a 2 year period we're going to spend $165 billion more...  

>We don't have lobbyists here fighting for working families... so today we're listening to the military-industrial-complex...  

>The *increase* in military spending... is larger than the entire military budget of China... Russia spends about $61 billion of defense annually...  

>I believe in a strong national defense but we cannot continue to give the Pentagon and defense contractors like Lockheed Martin a blank check while we ignore the basic needs of working families...  

>*Do we have to spend more money on Defense than the next 10 countries combined*  
when   

>* [children in American go hungry](http://undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1)

>* Veterans sleep out on the street  

>* America is the only major country that does not guarantee health care  

>about 1/3 of the Pentagon's $716 billion dollar budget goes directly into the hands of private contractors, not into the hands of our troops. Over the past 2 decades virtually every major defense contractor in the United States has paid millions of dollars in fines & settlements for misconduct & fraud while making yuge profits... and are also paying their CEOs and executives excessive and obscene compensation packages... millions... the bulk of their money comes from the taxpayers of the United States...  

>Why can a defense contractor pay a CEO a 100x more than the Secretary of Defense whose salary is capped at $205,000... I've filed an amendment to prohibit defense contractor CEOs from making more money than the Secretary of Defense...   

>The Pentagon's $1.66 trillion dollar acquisition portfolio currently suffers from more than $537 billion dollars in cost overruns...  

[13:46]  
>""We're gonna do this weapon system for $5 billion. Oh we made a little mistake, you'll have to pay us $10 billion dollars"" ""No problem, no worry. Nobody in Congress is gonna raise any issue about that""...  

>The Department of Defense remains the only federal agency that hasn't been able to pass an independent audit *28 years after Congress required it to do so.*  

>the amendment... if the Pentagon can't pass a clean audit by 2022 than a small portion of the defense budget ~$100 million dollars will be redirected to deficit reduction...  

>1 day before 9/11 former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said ""Our financial systems are decades old. According to some estimates we cannot track $2.3 trillion in transactions""...  

>the Pentagon controls assets in excess of $2.2 trillion or ~70% of what the federal government owns... In 2011 $31 to $60 billion dollars spent in Iraq and Afghanistan had been lost to fraud and waste... in 2015... the Pentagon could not account for $45 billion in funding for reconstruction projects...  

---  
 
>[another] amendment that I have submitted would reduce the Defense budget by 1/10^th of 1% and use that $700 million dollars to make our country safer by reaching out to people throughout the world in ways that bring us together through educational and cultural programs... 

[19:27] 
>**We will be safer when people throughout the world get to know each other, and understand the common humanity that they have... let us try to destroy the hatred that exists throughout the world based on fear and ignorance by allowing people to get to know one another.**  

---

>Since 2015 the United States Armed Forces have been involved in hostilities between the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen. It is long past time that we put an end to our unconstitutional and unauthorized participation in this war... It is the Congress of the United States that decides whether or not this country goes to war, not the President... the current humanitarian crisis in Yemen [is] the worst humanitarian crisis on the face of the planet today... 
 
>""impact hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians... may lose everything, even their lives."" -UN Humanitarian Coordinator Lise Grande  

>* The Trump administration has tried to justify our involvement...  
>* another administration told us invading Iraq was necessary...  
>* and another told us the Vietnam War was necessary...  

>I have filed a bipartisan amendment that will put an end to the US involvement of the War in Yemen...  

>""Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and not clothed. This world in arms is not spending alone, it is spending the sweat of its laborers, the genius of its scientist, the hoped of its children. This is not a way of life at all in any true sense. Under the cloud of threatening war it is humanity hanging from a cross of iron."" -Dwight Eisenhower  

-Bernie Sanders, [June 12^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7RVIdUSuVbE)

",Chartis,e8n4jd7,SandersForPresident
"The UN doesn't have the naval power to police international waters, and leaving it up to individual countries is just asking for conflict and disruption of global trade, which would be disastrous for the world economy. Private armies hired by corporations is it's own massive can of worms. 

The United States is the only entity on the globe capable of this sort of projection of power. ",Horyfrock,e8o2mje,SandersForPresident
"Ye.  There’s a lot of cost overruns in the military.  A decent amount comes from the fact that R&D always overruns it’s costs (that’s true pretty much everywhere in the industry) but a huge chunk is just waste and ego.  Like people continuously running their war machines for years on end without giving it a rest.  The budgets add up.  

And here we are, with me struggling to find a job, children going hungry, healthcare costs through the roof, and our science and history educations going to the gutter.  ",vader5000,e8n4rfm,SandersForPresident
And I don't want them to. Can doesn't mean should. I'm ok with a bit of instability in the world economy,IllusiveLighter,e8o2tij,SandersForPresident
It really sound like you could use Bernie's real deal. I'll fight like hell so good folks like you have the change needed to address your pains. Be well.,Chartis,e8n5lat,SandersForPresident
I’ll just do my best not to help make too many deadly weapons until then.  ,vader5000,e8n5n2z,SandersForPresident
"Florida 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/early-voting/): October 22-November 4, 2018 

[General Election](http://dos.myflorida.com/elections/for-voters/voting/absentee-voting/): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8pqlk0,SandersForPresident
"Hey Joe, ever been homeless?  Without healthcare?  Pay for school?  No?  Must be nice to have such a perspective.

",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8onhqh,SandersForPresident
"I truly believe that progressivism *is* populist, and being anti-populist is being anti-progressive.  You cannot call yourself progressive without putting the people first.

If we see a repeat of 2016 - with a Republican who is populist but not progressive, against a Democrat who is neither - we're going to see, well, a repeat of 2016.  And I will happily write in Bernie's name and let the Democrats suffer the consequences of betraying the people.",aescolanus,e8percm,SandersForPresident
Stunningly stupid and Joe Biden are old friends ,Reddituser45005,e8opy17,SandersForPresident
"Some things that [scare me](https://i.imgur.com/rzHJ5BG.jpg) are [worth overcoming:](https://cdn-zenpencils.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2012-11-27-twowolvesnew.jpg)  

[Selfishness](https://imgur.com/NxXHMXM)  
[Greed](https://imgur.com/PDpDwLp)    
[Pain](https://i.imgur.com/BzzjKoP.png)  
[Fear](https://i.imgur.com/n2FwJoF.png)  
[Death](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1057046537317048320)  
[Hatred](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=opM6YIx3gA8)    
[Divisiveness](http://inthesetimes.com/working/entry/21530/trump_nlrb_union_pickets_illegal_labor_joint_employer)  
[Social Darwinism](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)    
[Conglomerates Farming of Humanity](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/18/16791174/republican-tax-bill-congress-conference-tax-policy-center)    
[Short Shortsightedness](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZcridvxfLBo)  
[War](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/8s71tq/bernie_sanders_i_do_not_hear_any_objections_to/e0x1op3/)  
[Cowardly Cruelty] (https://twitter.com/berniesanders/status/1053394142762582018?s=21)  
[Apathy](https://imgur.com/h4Jy2bU)  ",Chartis,e8qbxqi,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders, [Oct 9^th '18](https://youtu.be/LoDEjLMdMgw?t=484):  

>We are seeing movements led by demagogues who exploit people’s fears, prejudices and grievances to gain and hold on to power.

>Just this past weekend, in Brazil’s presidential election, right-wing leader Jair Bolsonaro, who has been called “The Donald Trump of Brazil,” made a very strong showing in the first round of voting, coming up just short of an outright victory. Bolsonaro has a long record of attacks against immigrants, against minorities, against women, against LGBT people.   

>Bolsonaro, who has said he loves Donald Trump, has praised Brazil’s former military dictatorship, and has said, among other things, that in order to deal with crime, police should simply be allowed to shoot more criminals. This is the person who may soon lead the world’s fifth most populous country, and its ninth largest economy.

>Meanwhile, Brazil’s most popular politician, the former president Lula da Silva, is imprisoned on highly questionable charges, and prevented from running again.

>Bolsonaro in Brazil is one example, there are others which I will discuss. But I think it is important that we understand that what we are seeing now in the world is the rise of a new authoritarian axis.

>While the leaders who make up this axis may differ in some respects, they share key attributes: intolerance toward ethnic and religious minorities, hostility toward democratic norms, antagonism toward a free press, constant paranoia about foreign plots, and a belief that the leaders of government should be able use their positions of power to serve their own selfish financial interests.

>Interestingly, many of these leaders are also deeply connected to a network of multi-billionaire oligarchs who see the world as their economic plaything.

>Those of us who believe in democracy, who believe that a government must be accountable to its people and not the other way around, must understand the scope of this challenge if we are to confront it effectively. We need to counter oligarchic authoritarianism with a strong global progressive movement that speaks to the needs of working people, that recognizes that many of the problems we are faced with are the product of a failed status quo. We need a movement that unites people all over the world who don’t just seek to return to a romanticized past, a past that did not work for so many, but who strive for something better.

>While this authoritarian trend certainly did not begin with Donald Trump, there’s no question that other authoritarian leaders around the world have drawn inspiration from the fact that the president of the world’s oldest and most powerful democracy is shattering democratic norms, is viciously attack an independent media and an independent judiciary, and is scapegoating the weakest and most vulnerable members of our society.",Chartis,e8p3joy,SandersForPresident
"I N S A N E

N

S

A

N

E",lovely_sombrero,e8p8zz1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8pnq8k,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8pnrus,SandersForPresident
Zupan seemed more interested in slamming Bernie than selling himself as a potential senator.,formerteenager,e8o7ugi,SandersForPresident
"27 minutes in was an absolute delight to listen to. Zupan clumsily tossing out every insult from the Republican handbook was truly hilarious to watch, and it made me feel warm and fuzzy inside when Bernie clearly stated these thoughts are ""pathetic."" The subsequent deconstruction and destruction of the shallow arguments was inspiring, to say the least.",SIllycore,e8ofqk6,SandersForPresident
"
>Character assassination. What a wonderful idea. Ordinary assassination only works once, but this one works every day.

― Terry Pratchett, The Truth   ",Chartis,e8o8fy3,SandersForPresident
"bernie did well.Zupan was just throwing gop talking point.early on moderater used ""Berniebros"" at bernie.",ChrisRobbins15,e8okto5,SandersForPresident
">The election of far right authoritarian candidate Jair Bolsonaro, who promotes hatred of women, minorities, immigrants, and LGBT people, and has openly praised Brazil’s former military dictatorship, is a step backward for Brazil’s young democracy. We must reach out to those who share our values in Brazil and around the world to fight back against division and hatred with a message of unity and inclusion.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157417892607908)",Chartis,e8oyvwz,SandersForPresident
"* Currently California cities and towns aren't permitted to pass rent control measures to address the affordable housing crisis. That should change. Municipalities should have the freedom to deal with the decline in affordable housing and rising rents. Let's pass Prop 10.

* How is it possible that in Colorado a majority of school districts can only afford to keep their schools open 4 days a week? How are teachers paid wages so low that some have to work two jobs to survive? Our kids deserve a high-quality education. Amendment 73 is a no-brainer.

* Colorado Amendment 74, pushed by the fossil fuel industry, seems to be one of the most dangerous propositions in the country. It could open the flood gates for oil, gas and other corporate interests to bankrupt the state. This extremely dangerous amendment must be defeated.

* Given the crisis we face with climate change, in my view we should move toward a total ban on fracking. At a minimum, it seems obvious that we must protect communities from the environmental damage that fracking causes. In my view Colorado voters should support 112.

* Florida has the opportunity to re-enfranchise 1.4 million formerly incarcerated people to fully participate as citizens. Passing Amendment 4 is an important step for both voting rights and criminal justice reform.

* Question 1 in Massachusetts would set a safe maximum on the number of patients nurses can treat, so that patients can receive the quality care they deserve. Nurses are behind this initiative, and I trust them when it comes to knowing what is best for their patients.

* With the recent report from the IPCC noting the drastic action required to prevent the worst impacts of climate change, Initiative 1631 is an important step forward for the people of Washington State.

* I want to thank the many activists I met with who informed me about these important ballot measures nationwide which can help us create a fairer and just society. We must rise to the historic occasion and make sure we have record voter turnout so we can transform this nation.  

See Also: https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives
















",Chartis,e8nzgfe,SandersForPresident
"[Among 18-29 year olds:](http://iop.harvard.edu/spring-2018-national-youth-poll)  

* 40% (+3 from Spring) say they will ""definitely vote"" in the midterms  
* 26% say they approve of President Trump  
* 11% say they are ""sure to"" re-elect the President in 2020 if he is on the ballot  
* 59% say they ""will never"" vote for Trump  

---  

* 56% (63% among all likely voters) say they support a federal jobs guarantee 
* 56% (62% among all likely voters) say they support eliminating tuition & fees at public colleges & universities
* 40% (16% oppose) say they support billion dollar corporations electing 40% of their board from workers  
",Chartis,e8oq49s,SandersForPresident
">Millennials might be the most progressive generation in the history, and young people can change the course of this country if they show up to vote next Tuesday. In 2014 just 16% of young people turned out to vote. We can and we must do better than that.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1987735921281402)",Chartis,e8opdco,SandersForPresident
From the guy who plagiarized speeches from America's greatest populist president JFK,myadviceisntgood,e8pgmlj,SandersForPresident
"Wisconsin 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/registertovote): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/FindMyPollingPlace): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8q5fxu,SandersForPresident
"of course the L.A. times backs the other one.   Nina Turner was discussing the absolute horrifying racism that Jovanka has faced.

Assemby disrict 15 https://www.jovanka.org/

This would be a nice win!",4now5now6now,e8op0wf,SandersForPresident
>👩🏽‍⚕️ Registered Nurses address the misinformation campaign against universal health care: https://www.commondreams.org/views/2018/10/15/american-people-will-no-longer-buy-trump-gop-lies-about-medicare-all,Chartis,e8ofi0x,SandersForPresident
"I'm running for Thurston County Public Utility Commissioner to move us towards renewable green energy and affordable fiber-based broadband internet.

You may remember me from such hits as ""Not a Real Democrat""

You can read about me and my campaign at https://www.votesaturn.com

I'm endorsed by Democrats, Greens, Socialists, Farmer-Labor, as well as various local, state and national orgs. I'm also endorsed by subject matter experts, including two former PUD commissioners.

I've signed the Pro-Truth Pledge and the American Promise. My campaign is 100% funded by regular people and small donations. We've refused all support from corporations, fossil fuel interests, PACs and lobbyists.

I have a lot of faith in our voters and in my volunteers, but we could always use more help! If you'd like to phonebank (from anywhere in the USA, using your own phone) please let me know and I will set you up with an account.

Ask away!
",4now5now6now,e8pb9zg,SandersForPresident
"This is a brilliant candidate trying to save the drinking water in Thurston County, Washington State. So this is includes Olympia, Washington. He is standing up to fracking and corruption",4now5now6now,e8pbi7v,SandersForPresident
Source: https://twitter.com/BenJealous/status/1056922219643834368,Chartis,e8ogazg,SandersForPresident
"Maryland 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://elections.maryland.gov/voting/early_voting.html): October 25-November 1, 2018 

[General Election](https://voterservices.elections.maryland.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration/InstructionsStep1): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8ox8no,SandersForPresident
">I have been out on a picket line, standing with workers my entire life. I did it when I was mayor of the city of Burlington, I did it in Congress, I do it in the Senate. This is what I do. This is what I believe in. The picket line has been one of labor’s most powerful weapons throughout history and we must defend the right for workers to speak out and to organize and unionize.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1987673167954344)",Chartis,e8og2o1,SandersForPresident
"I'm excited about the election. As well as some redesign of our New Reddit/CSS/Mobile/App facades. And I'm excited that Randy Bryce will win Paul's old seat if we keep up our efforts. I really like Bernie's point he made:  

>[When we talk about infrastructure](https://youtu.be/EQnS8NiFeR4?t=593) it is building millions of units of affordable housing in America.  

>If you're making 10-12 bucks an hour and you're spending 50% of your income in housing, how do you buy the food that you need, how do you put gas in your car? [Affordable housing is a major crisis.](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/blog/the-housing-crisis)   

-Bernie Sanders, Oct 27^th '18  ",Chartis,e8ob3ab,SandersForPresident
"Economists reverse claims that $15 Seattle minimum wage hurt workers, admit it was largely beneficial - [https://boingboing.net/2018/10/28/fight-for-15.html](https://boingboing.net/2018/10/28/fight-for-15.html]).

&#x200B;

Well well, who'd have thought?",kevinmrr,e8orsxe,SandersForPresident
Nov 6th is coming fast. All of these candidates that I donated to and phone banked for. I know a bunch won't win but I'm hoping for some good wins. Donated to Hallquist when Bernie first endorsed her. Also Green party candidates as well as Justice dems. Please just some wins.,4now5now6now,e8onjq9,SandersForPresident
How likely is it that democrats take back the house? Im not from the US as u can see from my flair and am tired of seeing RCP and 538. Is there any enthusiasm among Dem base?,sasiralla,e8odn01,SandersForPresident
Right before the 2016 election some major news bombs dropped.  Of course the news was released to the public right before the election to have the biggest impact.  I wonder if we'll see anything similar to that in the last 7 days leading up to the 2018 election (or shortly after the election if Robert Mueller releases more info about his investigation).,Antarctica-1,e8p26eu,SandersForPresident
🤔,GrandpaChainz,e8p3jfq,SandersForPresident
"I think Hallquist has an excellent shot, though it's a tough battle. Hopefully these GOTV rallies with Bernie push her over the edge. ",GrandpaChainz,e8p3dky,SandersForPresident
dems are very likely to take house.it is senate that is tougher.,ChrisRobbins15,e8og9lr,SandersForPresident
"19 million people have voted already according to @ElectProject. If there was some pre-planned ""October surprise"" it's unfashionably late at this point.",GrandpaChainz,e8p3la2,SandersForPresident
 I hope so... Halquist is a Justice Democrat,4now5now6now,e8p60tw,SandersForPresident
"That's what the polls are saying, but is it really the case?",sasiralla,e8opkyw,SandersForPresident
She seems great. She's put herself out there and has received so much hate for it. It's admirable. ,GrandpaChainz,e8p646g,SandersForPresident
"Polls have been pointing that direction for a long time. Nate Silver noted that their model, for what it's worth, has 99 house seats up for grabs, whereas in 2014, a red wave year, it showed only 44. It's pretty wide open this year.",GrandpaChainz,e8p3g0l,SandersForPresident
The left wants to do all we can to stop Climate Change. The Republicans pull us out of international climate agreements and try to destroy the EPA. Democrats think the solution to gun violence is to have fewer guns. The Republicans have decided to follow their NRA donors and claim that having more guns would somehow reduce gun violence. Democrats want to improve public schools and allow all students to attend college without going into massive debt. Republicans want to move funding from public school and move it to private religious schools while opposing all effort to make college more affordable. Progressives think the solution to our awful healthcare system is to follow the lead of every industrialized country and institute a publicly funded health insurance system. The Republicans think that removing regulations and reversing the small improvements made by the Obama administration will somehow fix things. They also just fundamentally disagree with the idea that everyone should have health insurance. The Republicans literally think that a system where thousands die yearly because they’re uninsured while many more go bankrupt is better than a more affordable system that save us money and keeps everyone healthier.,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8ojpex,SandersForPresident
"If you believe in climate change, that's all you should need. Republicans are determined to let the world burn so long as Exxon can squeeze a few extra nickels out of it on the way down.",inthedollarbin,e8od48h,SandersForPresident
"* https://ourrevolution.com/ballot-initiatives  
* https://berniesanders.com/issues

Bernie's policy is on point:  

[S.3542 - Too Big To Fail, Too Big Too Exist Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3542/text)  

[S.3410 - Stop Bad Employers by Zeroing Out Subsidies Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3410)  


[S.3498 - Democracy Day Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3498/text)  

[S.3271 - No Money Bail Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3271)  

[S.3147 - Social Security Administration Fairness Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3147)  

[S.2810 - Workplace Democracy Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2810)  

[S.2691 - Opioid Crisis Accountability Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2691)  

[S.2165 - Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands Equitable Rebuild Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2165)  

[S.2011 - Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2011)

[S.1804 - Medicare for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)  

[S.1723 - Strengthening Veterans Health Care Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1723)

[S.1590 - Employ Young Americans Now Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1590)  

[S.1564 - Guaranteed Paid Vacation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/senate-bill/1564)

[S.1441 - Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1441)  

[S.1242 - Raise the Wage Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1242)  

[S.1082 - United States Employee Ownership Bank Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1082)  

[S.1081 - WORK Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1081)  

[S.1076 - Keep Our Pension Promises Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1076)  

[S.806 - College for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/806)  

[S.805 - Inclusive Prosperity Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/805)  

[S.586 - Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/586)  

[S.469 - Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/469)  

[S.427 - Social Security Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/427)",Chartis,e8oedxq,SandersForPresident
"I'm going to put a list of resources on Socialism in here, as there are plenty of Socialists in this sub as well. Hopefully you'll find it helpful:

**Introductory Videos**
---


- [POLITICAL THEORY - Karl Marx](https://youtu.be/fSQgCy_iIcc)

- [Private vs Personal Property](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eknoQYrgq60)

- [Economic Classes explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lOJWP_e3EVA)

- [How Capitalism is Exploitative](https://youtu.be/GFEzJovH2yo)

- [Karl Marx & Conflict Theory](https://youtu.be/gR3igiwaeyc)

- [What 'To each according to their need' Means](https://youtu.be/BNxSHcQqiMc)

- [intro to anarchy: Power and Violence](https://youtu.be/bCAUmh99hMI)

- [History of Anarchism in 8 minutes](https://youtu.be/6YitdjMORoU)

---

**Books and Articles:**
---

- [ABC's of Socialism](https://s3.jacobinmag.com/issues/jacobin-abcs.pdf)

- [*Why Socialism?* by Albert Einstein](https://monthlyreview.org/2009/05/01/why-socialism/)

- [Does Capitalism work?](https://github.com/dessalines/essays/blob/master/capitalism_doesnt_work.md)

- [What is Democratic Socialism?](https://jacobinmag.com/2018/07/democratic-socialism-bernie-sanders-social-democracy-alexandria-ocasio-cortez)

- [Marxists.org's Beginners guide](https://www.marxists.org/subject/students/index.htm)

- [Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels - *The Communist Manifesto*](https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1848/communist-manifesto/)

- [Friedrich Engels - *The Principles of Communism*](https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1847/11/prin-com.htm)

- [Karl Marx - *Capital*](https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1867-c1/index.htm)

- [Vladimir Lenin - *The State & Revolution*](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/staterev/)

- [Rosa Luxemburg - *Reform or Revolution*](https://www.marxists.org/archive/luxemburg/1900/reform-revolution/)

- [Peter Kropotkin - *The Conquest of Bread*](https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/petr-kropotkin-the-conquest-of-bread)

---

**Socialist Podcasts:**
---

- [Chapo Trap House](https://soundcloud.com/chapo-trap-house)

- [Economic Update with Prof. Richard D. Wolff](http://www.democracyatwork.info/tags/economic_update)

- [Revolutionary Left Radio](https://revolutionaryleftradio.libsyn.com/)

- [The Discourse Collective](https://soundcloud.com/discoursecollective)

- [The On Mass Podcast](https://onmasspodcast.com/)

- [Proles of The Roundtable](https://player.fm/series/proles-of-the-round-table)

- [The Guillotine](https://player.fm/series/the-guillotine-2391734)

---

**Socialist organizations you can join:**
---

- [Democratic Socialists of America](http://www.dsausa.org/)

- [Socialist Alternative](https://www.socialistalternative.org/)

- [The Party for Socialism and Liberation](http://www.pslweb.org/)

- [International Socialist Organization](https://www.internationalsocialist.org/)

- [Socialist Party USA](https://www.socialistpartyusa.net/)

- [Black Rose Anarchist Federation](http://blackrosefed.org/)

- [Industrial Workers of the World](https://iww.org/)

- [Food Not Bombs](http://foodnotbombs.net/new_site/)

- [Socialist Rifle Association](https://www.socialistra.org/)

---",Rvb321,e8og9mi,SandersForPresident
"Many people are pretty extreme in their views. You can be ""conservative"" on one policy and ""liberal"" on another. People essentially turn it into a red vs. blue. Don't do this. It's unhealthy and counter productive to the entire process. 

Most liberal policys are rooted in science and social benefit. Most conservative policys are rooted in tradition and currently often lean towards business benefits, under the logic that that will help socially.

Don't treat taxes like a platform. Taxes are a tool.

So much of everything is both a he said she said and two sides pissing match, you're in the perfect position to sit in the middle.

Observe. Watch what each side does. Watch what your local reps do. Apply logic through your experiences to determine whether those decisions were good or bad.

When voting time comes, vote what you feel needs changed and what is doing well.

Re: Bernie being a great candidate. His track record is unbelievable in modern politics. He listens, he literally just walks down the street and gets a haircut mid campaign. The only people arguing against him are pushing buzzword fear mongering tactics and ignoring policy facts.",Dippyskoodlez,e8om8qt,SandersForPresident
The republicans and the corporate dems are just selling us out to corporations. We spend trillions to private defense contractors for war crap that cost millions to make to bomb people that are not bothering us. We have so many unconstitutional wars going on. check out AUMF. Then there are so many students that have to going into forever debt with students loans. They are never allowed to bankrupt out of this debt anf the interest rate climbs higher. People can buy stock in this debt and profit. Climate change is one of the biggest reasons. The republicans are insane and speeding up global warming. Also many people do not have clean drinking water. ,4now5now6now,e8oq3yv,SandersForPresident
"I'm pretty sure everyone knows the climate is changing, with all due respect. Can you elaborate a little more? What are some legislation related stances that liberals support vs republicans? ",VHZT,e8oddhl,SandersForPresident
"You would think everyone knows that but sadly no. Corporate polluters have so captured one of the political parties that the vast majority of them outright disbelieve it. The few that don't deny humans contribute to it, or simply state the economic costs to address it are too high.

Here's the Sanders plan
https://berniesanders.com/people-before-polluters/",inthedollarbin,e8odt39,SandersForPresident
"> What are some legislation related stances that liberals support vs republicans? 

[Republican policies](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/05/climate/trump-environment-rules-reversed.html) speak for themselves.",Dippyskoodlez,e8omrip,SandersForPresident
"The Trump administration is opposing the [climate change lawsuit](https://abcnews4.com/news/local/environmental-groups-to-rally-in-support-of-youth-climate-change-lawsuit) brought by the nation's youth.

Also: ""[The most sweeping climate change legislation ever introduced.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be)""  

I've yet to see a viable alternative. Or any large scale, long term vision to what's proposed by the United Nations. What we do during these 8 days could be at least equal to what we do during the next year in regards to climate change. We're already [over 1°C above pre-industrial temps](http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/climate-lab-book/files/2017/01/preind_fig5_updated2016.png) and only have 11 years to stop the sliver left before [the scale tips:](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)   

>* Stop [irrationally demonizing taxation](https://i.redd.it/u4mfusbgmnu11.jpg) and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[UN Human Rights Report](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)   

>Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net 
anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030

-[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)

>To accomplish the key transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

>Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior...    

>As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a [job guarantee](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf) would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

-[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

I'm stoked about Bernie's international new deal initiative: [Progressives International](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/26/sanders-and-varoufakis-announce-alliance-craft-common-blueprint-international-new). This endeavor in rational humanism will be covered by r/GlobalProgress as more is known.  ",Chartis,e8oelri,SandersForPresident
"Arizona 2018 Election 

[Early Voting](https://azsos.gov/elections/voting-election/contact-information-county-election-officials): October 10-November 2, 2018 

[General Election](https://azsos.gov/elections/voting-election/contact-information-county-election-officials): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8q9si8,SandersForPresident
"I hope not. We need to structure society in a way where everyone doesn’t need to slave away for most of their life just to survive. Rather than trying to invent low paying jobs to replace well paying jobs that are off-shored or eliminated due to automation, we should be freeing people to allow them to pursue their passions.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8oiyrn,SandersForPresident
">Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

The job guarantee is solid, beneficial, & politically expedient. We're already [over 1.2°C above pre-industrial temps](http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/climate-lab-book/files/2017/01/preind_fig5_updated2016.png) and only have 11 years to stop the sliver left before [the scale tips:](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)   

>Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030  

---  

Money is made by the treasury when an issuing government authorizes a budget. [That enables production of the currency by underutilized workers, resources, & production capacity.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/e80lj35/) If there is less production and more purchasers the supply becomes limited and inflation occurs. This program is an excellent way to produce wealth and avoid inflation:  



>The program pays a uniform wage of $15/h, for both part-time & full-time work... It also offers basic healthcare through and expansion of Medicare, as well as other basic benefits such as childcare—effectively establishing a minimum benefits pack.  


>The PSE program is designed to ensure that all employers pay fair (living) wages, but without competing for employees or displacing private sector undertakings.  


>The design targets job creation for workers with lower skills and education—since they have high unemployment & underemployment. PSE participation for workers with greater education and skills will be transitional until conditions improve... when labor markets are tight, employers will recruit workers out of the PSE program.  


>By design, employment in the PSE program will move in a countercyclical pattern—growing in downturns and shrinking in recoveries as workers are pulled into the private sector. This helps to stabilize economic activity and household incomes. Economists call this an automatic stabilizer. The government’s budget will also move in a countercyclical manner as spending on the program cycles with the economy. This too helps to smooth cyclical fluctuations.  


>We also see the advantages of decentralizing administration to the community level. Since the goal is to create jobs in every community, and to create projects that are beneficial to every community, it makes sense to involve the local communities in the projects from the proposal stage through to implementation, administration, & evaluation. We would allow state and local governments as well as registered nongovernmental, not-for-profits to putforth proposals.  


>We expect that most of the jobs created will provide public services in nonprofit community organizations, public schools, and state & local governments. PSE workers could be used for very small public works projects (installing  playground equipment), simple maintenance  of  infrastructure  (planting vegetation as screening), and environmental retrofitting (adding insulation to housing in low-income neighborhoods or to community  buildings). A number of proposals for creation of workers’ cooperatives could be solicited. 


>Proposals can be solicited for apprenticeship programs that would train PSE workers for skilled employment outside the program after a term.  


>Scaling up to a national program that might employ 15 million workers will take time. The program will probably be phased in over a period of several years, both in terms of the numbers employed and the wages & benefits paid.  

>There are approximately 15 million potential workers who would be likely to join the program.   

>* 1 full-time worker could lift a family of up to 5 out of poverty
>* 1 full-time & 1 part-time worker, a family of 8 could rise out of poverty. 
>* In 2016, nearly 7.5 million people in families with a full-time worker lived in poverty. 
>* 9.5 million children would be lifted out of poverty. 
>* The average income gap of the 8 million families living in poverty in 2016 was $10,505—which is less than what a half-time job in the PSE would pay. 
>* Direct spending on the program is just below 2.5% of GDP per year. (Excluding increases in tax revenue due to economic growth as well as potential savings on a wide range of federal, state, and local programs that are targeted to low-income households. In 2015 for example, the federal government spent  $104  billion  on  food and nutritional service programs.)  

---

TL;DR:  

* It's decentralized to ensure that it serves workers as well as the communities in which they live.  
* The program pays $15/h plus benefits, establishing a nationwide effective minimum compensation level.  
* It does not compete with private employers, beyond setting minimum labor standards.  
* Employment in the program moves countercyclically, against business cycle swings, helping to stabilize consumption, output, income, and employment.  
* In cyclical upswings, private employers recruit workers out of the program; in downturns, the program absorbs workers shed by private employers.  
* Access to paid work eliminates most poverty, making it easier to deal with the poverty that remains.  

-Selected highlights from [policy note](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/pn_18_2.pdf)  

-[Full Report](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf)",Chartis,e8ojof1,SandersForPresident
I love Barbara Lee!!!!! She protests AUMF! Oh she could be his running mate.,4now5now6now,e8oqeuq,SandersForPresident
Her words are always so incisive and potent. She will be a very great politician. ,filmantopia,e8mw75u,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e8mp0cw,SandersForPresident
They frequently pierce rhetorical nonsense and get right to the truth. Congress won't know what hit 'em. ,lennybird,e8mwga8,SandersForPresident
I was pleasantly surprised by how positive this article is. I hope the mainstream media treats Bernie more fair and honest this time around but I'm not counting on it. Bernie 2020!!,TomBurcher,e8mzddm,SandersForPresident
"Wow, literally a fair article. What a brave new world we could be facing.",The_Popular_Populist,e8oc5ur,SandersForPresident
he doesn’t really react at all... can we wait just 10 more days before we go wild with this stuff? ,froli007,e8m5iow,SandersForPresident
Let's go Bernie 2020!!!,TomBurcher,e8lu1pv,SandersForPresident
"He decided not to respond to the ""Bernie 2020!"" shout?  He continued with his speech, which is fine, but I wanted to see if he had anything to say to that, like... ""We'll see!"" or ""Well it's a little too early to make any definitive announcements but I've been thinking about it!""  You know?  ",Nadia_Chernyshevski,e8lshq0,SandersForPresident
Tl;dw He had no response at all. ,wronghead,e8lz6mf,SandersForPresident
"His smile really resonated with me, but point taken. Thanks for the focus.",Chartis,e8mhcsx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8lxxng,SandersForPresident
"I like that he tried not to react but broke out in such a genuine smile. I can't find a good quality single video of the whole speech but I particular liked two aspects of his address:  

>Several years ago [a racist walked into a church in South Carolina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charleston_church_shooting) and shot people down in cold blood. Today, a racist walked into a synagogue in Pittsburgh. If this country stands for anything, it's gotta stand for the right of people -whether they are Christian, Jewish Muslim whatever they may be- to practice their religion, to live their lives, without bigotry without fear and certainly within their houses of worship. 

>* We've got to stand up to the gun lobby and we need [common sense gun safety legislation.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9rwxgv/we_deserve_better_despite_continuous_calls_for/e8ku9cn/) Guns should not be in the hands of people who should not have them. 


>* We've got to end that hatred, that bigotry that is sweeping this country.

---  

>[When we talk about infrastructure](https://youtu.be/EQnS8NiFeR4?t=593) it is building millions of units of affordable housing in America.  

>If you're making 10-12 bucks an hour and you're spending 50% of your income in housing, how do you buy the food that you need, how do you put gas in your car? [Affordable housing is a major crisis.](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/blog/the-housing-crisis)   

-Bernie Sanders, Oct 27^th '18

Other selected highlights transcribed from this tour are [transcribed here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9pzx7u/bernie_sanders_rallies_sioux_city_with_jd_scholten/e85jmhv)",Chartis,e8luees,SandersForPresident
"Actually thought this was classic Bernie.

Focusing on the issues that matter rather than himself.

If he addressed it in any capacity the rally instantly becomes a headline about him instead of a headline about GOTV for (in this case Barbara Lee) candidates.

The ever so slight [smile](https://imgur.com/a/UuqajwJ) though is definitely him saying ""It's coming you just wait"".",MelGibsonDerp,e8mwbrm,SandersForPresident
You might like [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uq6Ko_TKDn8).,TomBurcher,e8lttff,SandersForPresident
"[""Patience my friends, It's coming soon""](https://imgur.com/a/UuqajwJ)",MelGibsonDerp,e8mwobh,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8m3ygw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mbeam,SandersForPresident
"[Here's Dr. Sanders referenced address](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5vAewHKGxy8&feature=youtu.be&t=3356).  

On the topic of Bernie's likely [2020](https://i.redd.it/n3quxuteteu11.jpg) campaign:  

He's releasing [Where We Go From Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>If I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8lub9u,SandersForPresident
Thankyou,Nadia_Chernyshevski,e8luo0r,SandersForPresident
Thank you. I was having a hell of a time trying to get that shot.,Chartis,e8mwv3q,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mbh09,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8mcch1,SandersForPresident
"Interesting.

Varoufakis's position during the Greek financial crisis was that the (mostly Germain-led) bailouts of Greece really weren't about bailing out Greece, they were about bailing out German banks that made bad investments in Greece (in part because Greece was, with the assistance of Goldman Sachs, able to conceal the magnitude of their debt).  In effect, it was a financial transaction that shifted money from German taxpayers to German banks.  The ""bailouts"" would have imposed extreme financial austerity on Greece (i.e. turned it into a libertarian utopia with little funding for social services, education, and so on).

Greece eventually hired Varoufakis as finance minister, and in that position he advocated that it would be better for Greece to declare bankruptcy than accept the terms of the bailout they were offered.  There was a referendum on accepting bailout terms, which was rejected by voters.  Varoufakis resigned (because Greece's creditors hated him and wanted him gone).  Shortly thereafter, the Greek government accepted bailout terms harsher than the ones rejected by voters in the referendum.

Sometimes I wonder if Greece isn't a preview of the United States...  One generation doesn't want to pay the taxes to support all the various government programs they benefit from, thereby selling the future generations into financial slavery.  Then, when the money/credit runs out, all those social programs get killed or drastically reduced.  Just about 2 weeks ago, Mitch McConnell blamed Democrats for the horrendous deficit we're running because they haven't drastically reduced Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid spending to compensate for their tax breaks for the wealthy.  It's as if he sees Greece as an example to aspire to, to achieve his aim of getting rid of those wasteful social programs that don't do anything to maximize shareholder value or whatever it is he thinks is the policy objective of the United States government.

It'll be interesting to see what Bernie and Varoufakis can accomplish together.  This took me by surprise, but in retrospect it makes a lot of sense.",elihu,e8n52zw,SandersForPresident
"This paper is hidden behind a paywall, along with any details regarding participant selection, how it was determined that sexism was the underlying cause, etc. Were these people  self reporting that they didn't vote for Clinton because of sexism? What identified these people as being on the left? Lots of questions that are unavailable due to the paywall.",Forestthetree,e8o2h64,SandersForPresident
">people on the left

>vote for Trump

Oh boy. Left centrists maybe but come on.",Solidarity365,e8o79jy,SandersForPresident
">It is insane to be here and feel the momentum in this room. I can't tell you how special this is for me. I'm a young woman and [I'm here because I support Bernie Sanders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=926&v=BgcHk9WpcJo), I'm not here for the *bros*.

>I have seen symbolism in elections, symbolism that so desperately fails the people who so desperately needed the action to make change. I want my first female President to be more than a symbol.

>[Bernie Sanders is offering the action we desperately need.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/fighting-for-womens-rights ) His economic solution will provide for those who suffer from the oppression of a broken system. Including women.

>Bernie has the freedom from the private interests and big corporations to give families the extra childcare, time off for maternity leave, and pay equality. Actions that affect women directly.

>Bernie understands the importance of addressing inequality in a flawed economic system. We are here because we know that Bernie can bring real change. He can create a country that does not incarcerate more than it educates. A country with a demilitarized police force. One where we do not allow young Black men to be murdered without accountability. He gives us hope for equality.

>We haven't had a candidate like Bernie Sanders in a long time and we might not see the likes of him again. This is our moment. This is the time.

>I've been so impressed by the Sanders campaign. [He's remained so dignified in an insane political climate.](https://www.instagram.com/p/BoIDjicBCpU/?taken-by=berniesanders) And in doing so he's reminded us that this election is certainly not about the gender of the candidate.

>This is about a chance for a real change. One that will effect each and every American. This is about our future, a future we can believe in.

-[Emily Ratajkowski](http://probationagency.scdn4.secure.raxcdn.com/mediaLibrary/images/english/76758.jpg), [Feb 15^th '16](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EO5z8BeMRn4)",Chartis,e8o2nq4,SandersForPresident
Participants were selected based on if they voted in the election (obvious) based on self report and then were assigned to complete an ideology questionnaire to find out ideology and sexism was measured through the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory (1996). The answers to these questions went through a correlation coefficient with who they voted for; finding a high correlation between sexism scores and voting for trump (particularly with those who had liberal scores on the ideology test). ,Thegg11,e8o2zii,SandersForPresident
Didn't that one reddit user with oriel in his name turn to trump despite being a hard core Bernie support? Is it really that hard to believe that sexism could cause someone to vote trump?,Thegg11,e8o8csm,SandersForPresident
You can't just reject scientific research based on platitudes and anecdotes.,Thegg11,e8o370w,SandersForPresident
">Participants were selected based on if they voted in the election (obvious) based on self report and then were assigned to complete an ideology questionnaire to find out ideology and sexism was measured through the Ambivalent Sexism Inventory (1996). The answers to these questions went through a correlation coefficient with who they voted for; finding a high correlation between sexism scores and voting for trump (particularly with those who had liberal scores on the ideology test). 

Okay, so there has to have been more criteria than that. Were they located in the same area? What age groups were these folks in and was there a difference between respondents in different age groups? 

For this questionnaire how are they mapping people onto a left/right spectrum? Medicare for all for example is supported by majorities of Democrats, independents and republicans. Would support for that policy or other broadly popular policies that are shunned by conservative Democrats label them as 'left' in this paper?

It isn't clear to me what meaningful conversation you are trying to provoke here. Throughout the last presidential campaign conservative Democrats tried to argue that sexism was responsible for Bernie's popularity and ignored the fact that he was far more progressive and supported more progressive policies than Clinton. 

Sexism no doubt was a factor here but the title of a study based on self reporting and hidden behind a paywall reeks of scapegoating to avoid coming to terms with the other issues with that particular candidate. ",Forestthetree,e8oapod,SandersForPresident
It wasn't a rejection. It was highlighting the ideas that can be utilized to combat sexist influence.,Chartis,e8o3wkk,SandersForPresident
">And in doing so he's reminded us that this election is certainly not about the gender of the candidate.

This seems to suggest the exact opposite of what the research demonstrated. Sexism was a strong predictor of how someone would vote, and i'd argue that people who scored high on sexism wouldn't outright call themselves sexist.",Thegg11,e8o492u,SandersForPresident
What do you suggest as remedy?,Chartis,e8o4u7b,SandersForPresident
"This is a difficult question to answer to be honest. I would suggest recognizing the role sexism has had is the first step needed to fix this problem. We can't just ignore sexism and say ""ignore gender"" because one's implicit biases will impede such a strategy. As i mention, people seldom call themselves a sexist and will assume they choose to dislike someone for other reasons; even if sexism really is controlling their behavior.

I'd argue this was evident in the Sander/Clinton primary aftermath considering Clintons views/voting history were similar to Sanders, the only difference being how she wanted to get there. Yet, the primary was much more toxic than it should have been and I would argue this was due primarily to implicit sexism. Even if Clinton wasnt a perfect choice, I would argue that it is objectively wrong to say she was bad if you liked Sanders for his views; especially compared to trump.",Thegg11,e8o5fji,SandersForPresident
After that recognition what's the path forward?,Chartis,e8o5yy7,SandersForPresident
"This is getting outside of my area of expertise, but I would say creating a behavioral plan to combat sexism. One misinterpretation of sexism is assuming that it is an entity inside of someone as opposed to a list of different types of behavior (speaking is behavior as well). If we assume that it is an entity inside of someone, we cannot make a concrete plan to address it as we can only assume it ""goes away"" as opposed to fully demonstrating it actually has.

This is why a behavioral plan is more important; one would need to define what sexism is using behavioral examples (the assessment used in the study does this to some extent). A simple example would be how often one uses the words ""bitch/cunt"" towards a woman in power. Creating a plan such as: if you do not say ""bitch/cunt"" to women, you get X. 

Now, you would have to do this for a wide variety of behavior; but this demonstrates why recognizing sexism is so important; you can't just say ""he is sexist,"" and assume people know what that means; you have to say ""he is sexist because he says that Clinton is a cunt who should go to jail."" Furthermore, you can't actually address sexist behavior without successfully identifying it.",Thegg11,e8o6hmq,SandersForPresident
"Is your suggestion of a behavior plan for individuals to develop? 

What other suggestions may it include besides giving ??? to people who do not use those terms?

",Chartis,e8o7s5y,SandersForPresident
"There really isnt a great group solution that I am aware of (mostly because trying to change individual behavior without looking at the individual contingencies involved can be difficult). A behavioral plan simply means using a procedure established by behavioral psychology; the example I gave involves a DRO procedure (getting something after not engaging in a certain behavior for a set amount of time), but there are a lot of other possibilities. I mentioned individual plans because we realistically do not have the means to produce societal wide behavioral change all at once (even if we could create an effective group wide plan), instead we could only do so with individuals willing to engage in the plan.

Although you could attempt to discourage sexist behavior of others by calling it out; this may not always be the most effective solution considering the back fire effect (also something that happened a lot during the 2016 primaries).",Thegg11,e8o87sd,SandersForPresident
"What do you recommend giving people who do not use those terms?  

What other great possibilities are there?",Chartis,e8o8ky4,SandersForPresident
"I'd argue that experts would have to play the largest role in such a change (considering most people don't realize that one can be sexist even if they dont call themselves one). Something you and others can do is simply inform people of the difference between ""claiming to be a sexist"" and ""doing sexist things."" It probably won't abolish sexism, but it might help reduce it.",Thegg11,e8o8tr8,SandersForPresident
"Which experts would you hope to engage, in what ways, and what's our role in helping that along?  

What sort of things should be given to those who don't use those terms by individuals as part of behavior plans?",Chartis,e8o93io,SandersForPresident
"Already making excuses for the lost elections I see

Blue wave cancelled? ",crunchtaco,e8mr6ze,SandersForPresident
"So you think it's okay that [340,134](https://truthout.org/articles/georgias-kemp-purged-340134-voters-falsely-asserting-they-had-moved/) legitimate voters have been purged from the voter rolls in Georgia alone?",horstenporst,e8ngwty,SandersForPresident
They really do. These people only pretend to care about democracy when it's convenient.,BopTheDrass,e8nz1j9,SandersForPresident
"Great job Chloe and Canyon! Keep it up. 

Very well written and thank you for the hard work.

Expect great things in the future from you and will be pulling for you Tuesday March 6th.

Best of luck.",GMBoy,e8mkr18,SandersForPresident
"Image: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Do3kq9bXoAA3UPP.jpg  
Source: https://twitter.com/BewleyBuck/status/1048745757749272577  
Post: https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9m8m2s/bewleybuck_not_sure_if_he_is_even_running_but_i/",Chartis,e8mea0p,SandersForPresident
Beautiful! Thank you!,mandy009,e8mejg7,SandersForPresident
Bashing Trump... Has he joined the rest of the democrats and is now running on anti-Trump instead of pro anything? Bernie no :(,robotzor,e8lm4mb,SandersForPresident
"Oh shut it. He's running on both. All of his rallies involve him laying out what a con man Trump is, what Trump promised and how he lied, and laying out a progressive agenda. It's not one or the other and it's important to tell people about how Trump lied, because clearly a lot of people have fallen for it. If you don't tell anyone, then you can't possibly combat it. I remember during the primaries last time, everyone was frustrated that Bernie would never attack his opponent and point out any lying or differences between them. This is Bernie doing that and it's not to the exclusion of a substantive message.",ParadigmacticPassion,e8losc7,SandersForPresident
"The headlines are constantly ""Bernie bashes Trump""

Who is that inspiring? That's the kind of campaigning Bernie *despises.* Trump=Bad is not some new revelation.",robotzor,e8lsbgd,SandersForPresident
Bernie doesn’t write these headlines.,gideonvwainwright,e8nfgvc,SandersForPresident
"What we do during these 9 days could be at least equal to what we do during the next year in regards to climate change. We're already [over 1°C above *pre-industrial temps](http://blogs.reading.ac.uk/climate-lab-book/files/2017/01/preind_fig5_updated2016.png) and only have 11 years to stop the sliver left before [the scale tips:](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)   

> Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030  

It's time to roll up our sleeves and [Be The Bern to beat the burn](https://i.imgur.com/kUA6juU.jpg) right now.",Chartis,e8khais,SandersForPresident
I always knew Uncle Sam had a huge wrench.,Bloedbibel,e8l6tcr,SandersForPresident
I love this!!! What's the original source or is this OC?,OldSpeckledHen,e8kzl1b,SandersForPresident
Anyone know where this can be had as a decent quality print?,neroht,e8kke4b,SandersForPresident
"As far as I can tell, the first place it was posted was [Know Your Meme](https://i.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/original/001/284/704/b42.jpg), which means it probably originated on 4chan or someplace similar.",stevenxdavis,e8l25qw,SandersForPresident
"> So far this year, guns have killed 11,984 people.  That breaks down to 157 incidents and 40 deaths a day and does not include 22,000 suicides. Of the total fatalities, 548 were children, while 2,321 were teenagers.",Antarctica-1,e8nca5q,SandersForPresident
"See [the vault](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/wiki/art) for more: The passcode to bypass the guilt trip is activism

1. [Dank](https://i.imgur.com/ZLX7VuL.gif) 

2. [Steadfast](https://i.imgur.com/Vzwh17d.png)  

3. [~~2016~~ 2020](https://i.imgur.com/DMbEk7R.png)

* [Cap](https://i.imgur.com/R2JJubp.png)

* [Bringin' that thunder](https://i.imgur.com/Kklbw5r.jpg)

* [Birdman](https://i.imgur.com/WTkQFb8.jpg)

* [The American way](https://i.imgur.com/G1BBjIH.jpg)  

* [Patriot](https://i.imgur.com/u43sjPm.jpg)

* [Just because I really like this one](https://i.imgur.com/0TljmzV.jpg)  

* [A closing reminder](https://i.imgur.com/Gg5gFH1.jpg)",Chartis,e8m7par,SandersForPresident
"> The remaining attacks, the web site said, “were driven by left-wing ideologies … and Islamic extremism.”

That’s quite interesting to me that they lumped “Islamic extremism” in with left-wing ideologies, despite the overwhelmingly right wing nature of Islamic extremism.",CinnamonJ,e8k63pq,SandersForPresident
"Not a surprise.   
The real number is actually higher than two-thirds.   


If you look at \*deadly\* terrorist attacks (that is, terrorism with the goal of killing people or which results in dead people) almost every single one is the work of right-wing extremists, or islamists. ",MandrakeThePancake,e8k6u8e,SandersForPresident
"Right now in Minnesota a right-wing extremist from out-of-state hate group [Alliance Defending Freedom](https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/extremist-files/group/alliance-defending-freedom) (ADF) is trying to infiltrate our state government. It's a tough race. Bernie backed Keith Ellison, but it might not be enough. I already voted, but I'm fearful. We're going back to Jim Crow soon.",mandy009,e8l07hr,SandersForPresident
"Overall, I think the SPLC does fantastic work and has a great history of exposing hatred of oppressed groups.

But the SPLC did publish an article which smeared left-wing journalists Max Blumenthal, Ben Norton, and Rania Khalek for being too ""pro-Russian"".  To their credit, [the SPLC took down the article and apologized for doing it.](https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2018/03/09/update-multipolar-spin-how-fascists-operationalize-left-wing-resentment).

But one has to wonder how on earth could they ever come to the conclusion that those left-wing journalists were allies of right-wing extremists? That is a completely pro-democratic establishment and pro-CIA talking point.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l0srf,SandersForPresident
"•Rightwing Terror

•All Other Violence Combined",Rhesusmonkeydave,e8k6huc,SandersForPresident
"> That is a completely pro-democratic establishment and pro-CIA talking point.

I agree with your whole statement but I think you’ve got it *exactly* right here.  In general, operations like the SPLC are left to their own devices and they do good work but ultimately they answer to someone and the minute they’re needed to carry water for whatever questionable cause they’re ready to answer the call.",CinnamonJ,e8lkl2b,SandersForPresident
"My point is that Islamic extremism is *explicitly* right wing, even if the American right wing won’t admit it.  It’s a completely arbitrary distinction.",CinnamonJ,e8k7fxz,SandersForPresident
"Yes. They're an establishment non-profit who relies on wealthy donors. I love the ACLU too. But the ACLU has been has bought into the whole anti-Russia hysteria and been nearly completely silent while the major social media companies censor left-wing and right-wing groups.

One would think the ACLU in principle would defend the rights of anyone who was purged from social media until they are proven to be a threat, bots, or Russian operative. But nope. It's near complete silence besides the occasional [blog post](https://www.aclu.org/blog/free-speech/internet-speech/facebook-shouldnt-censor-offensive-speech) defending free speech, which doesn't even mention the anti-Russia hysteria as a contributing factor at all. 

Why not organize a major campaign around this? It seems like as good of a campaign to organize around as anything else. This threatens the future of independent media.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8omc50,SandersForPresident
I think they are trying to distinguish between political and religious extremism and to avoid looking like they are using Islamic extremism to make conservatives look worse.,heimdahl81,e8kvxnb,SandersForPresident
"You don’t think right wing violence is inextricably linked to religion?  Look at their targets, abortion clinics, synagogues, mosques.  Those don’t seem religiously motivated to you?",CinnamonJ,e8kwk33,SandersForPresident
"It's not even conservativism, but radical fundamentalism and authoritarianism, which people aren't likely to realize or self-identify as behaviors. And of those, it's primarily the subset of susceptible people with unmet social needs, unaddressed mental illness, and inadequate education that are most at risk of becoming violent or militant / extremist.

We're talking about a person or so per million here in the US, tops, which isn't a great sample size, so the larger issue is discovering what about the nation is changing that enables a state where this type of behavior is more likely to occur.",larrylombardo,e8l77re,SandersForPresident
"Right wing violence is inextricably linked to religion, but religion is not inextricably linked to the right wing. Does that make sense?",heimdahl81,e8l1hhc,SandersForPresident
"It makes sense, it’s just irrelevant to the topic at hand.  The article in question makes a disingenuous distinction between Islamic extremist violence and right wing extremist violence when Islamic extremist violence *is* right wing violence.",CinnamonJ,e8l21hh,SandersForPresident
"Islamic extremist violence and American right wing extremist violence are only comparable in the broadest of terms. They originate from different religions, different populations, and have different motivations. They require different methods to fight. ",heimdahl81,e8mt6rv,SandersForPresident
">Several years ago [a racist walked into a church in South Carolina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charleston_church_shooting) and shot people down in cold blood. Today, a racist walked into a synagogue in Pittsburgh. If this country stands for anything, it's gotta stand for the right of people -whether they are Christian, Jewish Muslim whatever they may be- to practice their religion, to live their lives, without bigotry without fear and certainly within their houses of worship. 

>* We've got to stand up to the gun lobby and we need [common sense gun safety legislation.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9rwxgv/we_deserve_better_despite_continuous_calls_for/e8ku9cn/) Guns should not be in the hands of people who should not have them. 


>* We've got to end that hatred, that bigotry that is sweeping this country.

---  

[9:53](https://youtu.be/EQnS8NiFeR4?t=593)

>When we talk about infrastructure it is building millions of units of affordable housing in America.  

>If you're making 10-12 bucks an hour and you're spending 50% of your income in housing, how do you buy the food that you need, how do you put gas in your car? [Affordable housing is a major crisis.](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/blog/the-housing-crisis)   

-Bernie Sanders, Oct 27^th '18",Chartis,e8lbwre,SandersForPresident
">I am deeply saddened by the news of a shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. Several years ago a hateful person walked into a church in Charleston. Today there was another act of violence – this time at a synagogue.

>We don’t know all the details yet, but in too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157412616232908)",Chartis,e8lbxzh,SandersForPresident
"And he blamed it on black people, brown people, and democrats. This guy is basically your average trump supporter.",Zincoshine_2018,e8l8mml,SandersForPresident
"Ha, the irony...",stargrove88,e8kpagb,SandersForPresident
😱 Stranger than fiction...,WendyJK,e8lyzc7,SandersForPresident
Critical thinking is not the strong point of trump supporters.,IfIKnewThen,e8khmeb,SandersForPresident
It’s almost as though you’re suggesting this guy was a dupe.,sparassis,e8lrcnx,SandersForPresident
"Still being able to shoot hoops, along with the constant physical activity of campaigning around the country, how are people still doubting his health?",BopTheDrass,e8l3gud,SandersForPresident
"Just talking to my fiancee about that today.

Trump sleeps until 10, vacations constantly, and doesn't do his job.. and he looks terrible. 

Bernie? He's on the road day and night, shooting hoops, standing in picket lines, filming tapes, and shouting at rallies. Looks fresh every day.",IrrationalTsunami,e8l5o8s,SandersForPresident
">I am deeply saddened by the news of a shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. Several years ago a hateful person walked into a church in Charleston. Today there was another act of violence – this time at a synagogue.

>We don’t know all the details yet, but in too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157412616232908)",Chartis,e8k5bko,SandersForPresident
"* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251) ",Chartis,e8hzhps,SandersForPresident
">The American people have a very clear choice in the upcoming elections. 

>1. Donald Trump & the Republican leadership in Congress, who made throwing 32 million Americans off of health insurance their number one priority in Washington. 

>2. ""[Medicare for All](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)"" supported by 16 senators and [122 House members.](https://jayapal.house.gov/Medicare-For-All) It would guarantee everyone could get the health care they need without going into debt at far lower cost than the current dysfunctional system.  



>* [70% of Americans](http://pnhp.org/blog/2018/08/23/reutersipsos-poll-70-percent-support-medicare-for-all/) support expanding and improving Medicare to cover everyone 
>* the pharmaceutical industry charges us, by far, the highest prices in the world. 1 out of 5 Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe  
>* Medicare is the [most popular](http://www.asaging.org/sites/default/files/images/Brodie-Hamel-Norton-figure1.png), successful, & cost-effective health insurance program

---  

>As president, Trump has made our health care system worse:  

>* He proposed a $1 trillion cut to Medicaid, a $500 billion cut to Medicare, & a $72 billion cut to the Social Security disability fund  
>* As a result of his sabotage of the Affordable Care Act, 13 million more Americans will become uninsured over the next decade while millions more have seen their premiums rise  
>* His administration is working alongside 20 Republican state attorneys general to end the protection that the Affordable Care Act now guarantees to people with pre-existing conditions

 
---  


>When we eliminate:  

>* private insurance premiums
>* deductibles
>* co-payments

>the average American will pay substantially less for health care:    

>1. [A recent study by RAND](https://www.politico.com/states/f/?id=00000164-f261-d556-a1ec-ff759d100001) found that moving to a Medicare for All system in New York would save a family with an income of $185,000 or less about $3,000 per person a year, on average. 
>2. Even the projections from the conservative Mercatus Center suggest that the average American could [save about $6,000 under Medicare for All](https://preview.redd.it/568es2zlhnr11.png?width=1017&auto=webp&s=c1a59603cc8b477f71a4a041a9f50db11acaca41) over a 10-year period.

>It would also benefit the business community:  

>* Small and medium sized businesses would be free to focus on their core business goals 
>* Workers would not have to stay at jobs they dislike just because their employer provides decent health insurance

---  

>Trump is grossly distorting what the Medicare for All legislation does:  

>* It would not cut benefits for seniors on Medicare. Millions of seniors today cannot afford [dental care](https://i.redd.it/dt2xqpiseku11.jpg), vision care or hearing aids because Medicare does not cover them. Our proposal does. 
>* It would eliminate deductibles and copays for seniors and significantly lower the cost of prescription drugs. 
>* It allows seniors and all Americans to see the doctors they want, not the doctors in their insurance networks.  
>* Trump claims that Medicare for All is not affordable. That is nonsense. What we cannot afford is:  

>  * to continue [spending almost twice as much per capita](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DFwP1nPVwAEWDVt.jpg) on health care as any other country on Earth. 
>  * the $28,000 it currently costs to provide health insurance for the average family of 4.
>  * to have 30 million Americans with no health insurance & even more who are under-insured with high deductibles and high co-payments. 
>  * to have millions of Americans get sicker than they should, and in some cases die, because they can’t afford to go to the doctor.  

>If every major country on earth can guarantee health care to all and achieve better health outcomes, while [spending substantially less](https://i.imgur.com/LqzwyrX.jpg) per capita than we do, it is absurd for anyone to suggest that the United States of America cannot do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 11^th '18](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/10/11/bernie-sanders-donald-trump-lies-medicare-all-health-care-column/1594863002/)",Chartis,e8i1z8b,SandersForPresident
"Mr 45 lies almost every time he opens his mouth.

I mean, that's his whole shtick. Conning, manipulating, lying, deceiving and denying. At this point, I'm not sure whether it's a chronic habit or if he is capable of better but still lies because that's his shtick. ",HereComesUncleMick,e8i6vx2,SandersForPresident
Medicare for All will hurt seniors so we have to take away Medicare. That way people have nothing left to lose. Seniors should pay out of pocket for everything. Cuz everyone knows they aren't on fixed incomes.,mandy009,e8hwh0c,SandersForPresident
"If the thermonuclear bowel evacuation currently disgracing the Oval Office says anything, you can make book on the fact that it's total bullshit. That's all he knows how to spew.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8hz3ft,SandersForPresident
This president and administration is not normal. Both must be rejected on Nov 6. ,skellener,e8ifrab,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8hy9q2,SandersForPresident
"I see bright red blood filling the toilet bowl every time I stand up after using it. I work as a manager 40-48 hours a week, 6 nights out of 7, for a very popular retail store (15,000 stores so far). After being garnished for student loans, there's no way I can afford the health insurance they offer. I'm scared and don't know what to do. I sincerely hope something happens soon in terms of health care... ",Avid_Smoker,e8jei53,SandersForPresident
I just want to go go to the doctor and not fear bankruptcy...that's it.,Fret_Bavre,e8iz9by,SandersForPresident
"The #1argument people keep throwing at this is ""BUT WHO WILL PAY FOR IT"" take a page from the books of Canada. They dont have the problems we do and yet we have more money. So how can they pull it off but we can't? Because most Americans are ignorant and dont see how much this will benefit them. I'm 22 with health problems and serious dental issues that I cant get fixed because of this premium bullshit we use. I fully back Bernie on all of his ideals and shall continue to do so because hes one of the only politicians who gives a damn about the American people.",PaneledJuggler7,e8je8bc,SandersForPresident
"It's not like Trump lies everyday, it's just that he lies when he talks.",Sqeegg,e8iswqi,SandersForPresident
Front page!!,carminedg123,e8jlr7c,SandersForPresident
"wow just wow my 8yearold is litterally shaking right now, she asked me ""husband why does trump do such bad things like that"" and i said, because he's cheeto hitler sweety",Ranidaphobia,e8lao2n,SandersForPresident
medicare for all will help seniors because it will actually keep alive all the fucking young people taking care of them,ohgodwhatthe,e8iqb43,SandersForPresident
I buy that for a dollar ,Nikkaplease5,e8jn7ox,SandersForPresident
"Killing social security will do wonders for seniors, though.",neofiter,e8intmp,SandersForPresident
"medicare itself has hurt the seniors i know, as it actually made their health insurance more expensive

it isnt a perfect system",watchy_watchman,e8i6lnf,SandersForPresident
No ty,Zor369,e8i9vyq,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8iazjp,SandersForPresident
"I would like to see a valid proposal that implements it, from what i've seen it will double federal taxes, burdening the employee with healthcare costs (massive handout to big corporations basically), and in the end, just like medicare, you will need a supplemental plan to get any services. So in the end, only the upper middle class and the rich will have access to the best doctors that only take supplemental insurance. 

The only medicare for all scheme i can support is one that is funded by taxes on wallstreet and tariffs on big business that produce with slave labour, coupled with federally funded schools to produce more doctors (supply and demand).",seius,e8hytrf,SandersForPresident
"Haven't we been preaching something similar? Why don't we want this? 

Probably not popular to question the mothership, but I need explanations outside of ""Trump Bad"". There's too much outrage politics and not enough facts. ",Tremulant887,e8hzc0y,SandersForPresident
The problem about trump and Bernie is that neither has provided any sort of plan/study publicly that supports their ideas,coolonit,e8j5ww4,SandersForPresident
"""Free""....

How about we figure out how to remove government from the process so the businesses don't keep raising prices due to a big fat government check coming?

You know, like how the free market competes?

Perfect? No. But better than Socialism.",DougBugRug,e8jlsui,SandersForPresident
"But if we give healthcare to people who didn't work super hard to pay for it, how are their kids going to learn they need to work 80 hour weeks to put food on the table?",Nemesis_Bucket,e8ipapz,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8je13z,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8j3un0,SandersForPresident
"I think he is an acute narcissist who displays all of one's token traits. His lying when it suits his narrative (which is pretty much always) is just par for the course. Every time he speaks, it's to self-aggrandize. Pretty well any time he campaigns for someone, the majority of Trump's time is spent talking about Trump. The man is unhinged.",whatwatwhutwut,e8jmq3o,SandersForPresident
"Yeah. Everyone knows how rich seniors are. Seriously, this is just so unbelievably vile.",lenswipe,e8hyin0,SandersForPresident
"Which reminds me, we have to take away social security while we're at it. 

And food stamps. ",Quizzelbuck,e8ir3l0,SandersForPresident
"Ever notice how angry he looks when acting vaguely ""presidential""? I think to that time when he was to condemn and disavow the white supremacists only to find a way to blame ""both sides."" Or those time when he said one vaguely unifying statement, just to say entirely the opposite at one of his rallies. 

Hell, the fact that the only leaders I know of who held rallies during their tenure are dictators. Legitimately can't think of a non-dictator aside from Trump... Who has made multiple comments about wishing it were so.",whatwatwhutwut,e8jmvsn,SandersForPresident
"""Not normal"" isn't the problem at all. The status quo needs to be disrupted somehow. I don't take ""populism"" to be a dirty word, like some do.

The problem with this administration and everything it entails: is that Mr 45 is a natural-born snake-oil salesman. A skilled con artist, skilled at deceiving an ignorant populace but an utter failure at detecting BS from OTHER people. He sells poison disguised as lemonade. And too many voters are eager to buy the poison, because they think it's the real McCoy and that HE is the ""Real McCoy"".

Granted, Clinton's campaign mistakes and ignoring a large swath of the American voting base, is one of several reasons that we're in this mess right now. I mean, we've been in a mess for years (if not decades) now but our downhill speed has just accelerated since 2016.

I'm rooting for a ""blue wave"" of course, but only as a last line of defense against a red tide of hell. ",HereComesUncleMick,e8j98zx,SandersForPresident
What in the name of all that is holy does it mean when the party that relies on the senior vote suddenly touches the third rail? Some awful new strategy must be giving them confidence. Either raw totalitarianism of election fraud or voter suppression large and selective enough to empower the new nationalist base. This is the start of a new [party system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifth_Party_System). There's no guidebook where we're going. All bets are off.,mandy009,e8hz06z,SandersForPresident
"as as senior that is not part of thier base, gee thanks. ",errie_tholluxe,e8i9ee4,SandersForPresident
"That could really be cancer, dude. Get that shit seen to ASAP.",meet_the_seed,e8jlvqv,SandersForPresident
That sounds like kidney failure. You need to go to the ER.,ComplicatedShoes1070,e8jouna,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8jm0hs,SandersForPresident
That’s quite a hyperbolic statement. This is why these ideas are not taken seriously by taxpayers with good health insurance.,ComplicatedShoes1070,e8jowfq,SandersForPresident
"LOL

",MostSensualPrimate,e8j2q8q,SandersForPresident
[Overwhelming support.](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png),Chartis,e8ibap9,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8iiwu0,SandersForPresident
"I agree with the federally funded schools.

Med school SHOULD NOT be for people who can go just cause they can pay for it and their parents can support them with food while they're in school. 


Federal funding would make it a way more competitive program. If anyone has a shot, they get to choose the most qualified, which is no longer those who can pay for it. 


Loans?

Lol",Nemesis_Bucket,e8ipkhw,SandersForPresident
Preaching something similar? One of Bernies cornerstones has been single payer... ,Lopsterbliss,e8hztzq,SandersForPresident
[Incorrect.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/how-bernie-pays-for-his-proposals/),GrandpaChainz,e8jyj9u,SandersForPresident
">* Stop [irrationally demonizing taxation](https://i.redd.it/u4mfusbgmnu11.jpg) and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[UN Human Rights Report](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E)   

>Climate-related risks to health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth are projected to increase with global warming of 1.5°C... In model pathways with no or limited overshoot of 1.5°C, global net 
anthropogenic CO2 emissions decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030

-[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/)

>To accomplish the key transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

>Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior...    

>As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a [job guarantee](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf) would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

-[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  ",Chartis,e8jmt5l,SandersForPresident
You do know that countries with universal health care are far better at cost control than the U.S.?,baldobilly,e8katls,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8jjpa9,SandersForPresident
"The plan is a political revolution. S.1804 & H.R.676 are Medicare For All. Bernie introduced it in the Senate a year ago and the rate of support for them is growing rapidly. It's supported by 70% of Americans, has a Congressional Caucus, 28% House support, over half of mid-term Democratic House candidates support it, and it's Bernie's flagship campaign policy. [61%](https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/558940/Payers%20and%20Providers%20Remain%20Far%20Apart.pdf?__hstc=&__hssc=&hsCtaTracking=9e67cd59-629a-4558-8d71-b8c034af3880%7Cf4086258-bd80-4201-937a-d3e875d9ddd2) of health care executives, clinical leaders, and clinicians said a single-payer would improve the value of care. Nurses are chanting about it in the streets. Even conservative think tanks say it will save trillions. All the efforts of Americans and the international community that have come before have primed this progress.  

Many people had doubts in the dozens of other countries where universal health care is now implemented. ",Chartis,e8j54m5,SandersForPresident
"The ACA didn't address the fundamental problem with our healthcare system: it's primary focus is profit, not care.",TTheorem,e8j5nei,SandersForPresident
I agree. He displays all the traits of malignant narcissism -- which is what many think Hitler and dictators in general had.,kazingaAML,e8k9776,SandersForPresident
I agree. He displays all the traits of malignant narcissism -- which is what many think Hitler and other dictators have had.,kazingaAML,e8k99kc,SandersForPresident
"Just a bunch of freeloaders, not working and getting government hands outs. /s

Obligatory /s because there's honestly senators/people who feel this way",afoley947,e8i46eu,SandersForPresident
This sub hates all the rich boomers until it's time to protect a social program.,dhighway61,e8i47xl,SandersForPresident
And did I tell you how much of a Christian nation we are?,BopTheDrass,e8k8h5m,SandersForPresident
"This is the first time I realised I can use the American political climate as an analogy for the world's climate.

""Yes, things were getting worse through natural processes, but once you throw all of this hot air into the mix, and things deteriorate faster than they were beforehand, and the only way to save existence is to reduce the impact of that variable from the equation.""

I mean, which one am I talking about? Who knows.",whatwatwhutwut,e8jn1bn,SandersForPresident
And that tells me one thing. Trump was right about europe no longer being able to rely on the US for defence. Cause I am not sure if you are still our allies.,tikirej,e8i44hf,SandersForPresident
The strategy: Fox News indoctrination.,rack88,e8iiyao,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ia6f1,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8jmmlb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ibfin,SandersForPresident
"""Medicare for all"" has been a headline in his speeches and campaigns. Just looking for some insight as to why things are wrong with what we have going on now. ",Tremulant887,e8i1cmn,SandersForPresident
"Paid for by a 6.2 percent income-based health care premium paid by employers, a 2.2 percent income-based premium paid by households, progressive income tax rates, taxing capital gains and dividends the same as income from work(hard numbers don’t disagree)

limiting tax deductions for the rich. how? Who’s rich? What exact tax deductions?

adjusting the estate tax, how much?

and savings from health tax expenditure how much? 


Classic bait and switch. Start with hard numbers then gets ambiguous. ",coolonit,e8kptz7,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8j5m41,SandersForPresident
It is not hypocritical to believe both that there should be social programs that set a humane floor in this country and that those programs should be funded by taxing people who are the most well off and who can afford to contribute. Those beliefs go together quite well. ,pmacd00,e8ib716,SandersForPresident
There's a difference between rich boomers though who are fucking loaded and an old lady who has to go without food so she can get an infected cut seen to,lenswipe,e8i4i1p,SandersForPresident
Canada feels the same. And we don't have an ocean between us either.,whatwatwhutwut,e8jn3eh,SandersForPresident
Who said it was your fault? Triggered much? Just said thanks for lumping in the 60% or so of boomers who did NOT support this burritoville reject. ,errie_tholluxe,e8iaoy7,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8iav1i,SandersForPresident
"Actually, Trump wouldn’t be able to make the contrasts on trade and foreign intervention that he tried to make with Hillary that helped him out in the Midwest. Also, Bernie’s distance from the unpopularity of the DNC helps him with swing voters. Lots of reasons to think he would do better than her and we may get a chance to see who is right in 2020 if Trump is still around and decides to run again.",pmacd00,e8id7ju,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8iix7v,SandersForPresident
">""Medicare for all"" has been a headline in his speeches and campaigns. Just looking for some insight as to why things are wrong with what we have going on now. 

You're asking what's wrong with the current US healthcare system? 

",MissMeWThatScreenSht,e8i1svn,SandersForPresident
"We pay twice as much for healthcare as any other developed nation and we have worse health outcomes. Consider that an MRI in the USA cost 2500-3000 USD, and in Germany or Canada, it costs 400-700 USD. Germany has a multi-payer system and Canada has a single-payer system similar to what Bernie is proposing. 

The German system happens to be structured similarly to how the US system is now. The major difference is that 70% of the German health insurance industry is non-profit, whereas in the US it is almost entirely commercialized (for profit). Germany also has laws in place to guarantee coverage for a variety of conditions that in the states is left to the discretion of the insurance company, meaning if they don't want to cover your treatment costs, they don't have to. 

America for whatever reason pays substantially less than any other nation on civil services like housing, retirement, and welfare which has long been proven to be one of the best methods of preventative care. 

Whether you believe in single payer or multipayer, mandatory or opt-in health care. One thing is certain, our health care system as it currently stands is broken and not sustainable long term.",SLowfalls,e8iep5y,SandersForPresident
"The very short version is that we pay more per capita for healthcare than comparable countries that use single payer and we tend to get worse health outcomes than those countries. It’s simply an inefficient system. 

Inefficiency aside, it seems immoral that in the richest country in the history of the world, people are going bankrupt because they get sick. People choose between treatment for themselves or a loved one and paying basic utility bills. Universal healthcare would address a lot of that immorality and would save us money in the process.  ",pmacd00,e8icdiy,SandersForPresident
"Progressives [will.](https://i.redd.it/u4mfusbgmnu11.jpg) Our Revolution and other organizations' candidates (check sidebar) are picked and supported by people. And they are winning. It's in their interest to act in the citizenry's interests.   

>Our job is to have a vision. Don't be afraid of a vision. Don't be afraid of somebody saying 'You're too [idealistic.](https://i.imgur.com/vA92qVB.png)' Don't accept that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 25^th '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3aQTb_Xcyh4&feature=youtu.be&t=354)  

>We are going to pass a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program.

-Bernie, [June 23^rd '18](https://youtu.be/CquyXLTiu98?t=124)",Chartis,e8j6amo,SandersForPresident
Babyboomers voted 53% in favour of Trump according to exit polls. I'm assuming this was about Trump. Were you including those who didn't vote?,whatwatwhutwut,e8jnefm,SandersForPresident
"Yup:  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people who may or may not vote...](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)   ",Chartis,e8idzjx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ie611,SandersForPresident
"Oh I didnt say I was a boomer, am genx, he just blanketed out something that effects my age group as well though as we are right after the tail end of boomers. ",errie_tholluxe,e8jwsyf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8io6c6,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8iu4w6,SandersForPresident
Ahhh... Agony.,whatwatwhutwut,e8mdim8,SandersForPresident
"While catchy, I think it focuses too much on the past, and suggests a bit of an ""I told you so"" attitude. I'd rather look to the future.",BradleyUffner,e8jzrtm,SandersForPresident
"My take on this specific proposal depends on what he has to deal with.  If Hillary Clinton actually runs again or if she makes a great effort to obstruct Bernie's efforts, then he certainly should respond with starkly honest critique of the 2016 train wreck he did everything in his power to avert.  The slogan would be a clear signal that a choice between speaking the truth or uniting the party is no choice at all for an honest leader.

On the other hand, if there is legitimate party unity at stake -- if the process of primaries and debates sees other Democratic candidates quick to bow out and endorse Senator Sanders -- then a confrontational slogan could do more harm than good.  We all know who could not read an Electoral College map as well as Kellyanne Conway in 2016.  Putting a fine point on it is only useful if the incompetence of the past continues to actively obstruct American progress.",Demonweed,e8jkzbh,SandersForPresident
"Gotta start first off by saying I've wanted Sanders to be president since 2007.  I voted for him in the primaries.  I helped GOTV.  I'm a Sanders man.  That being said, a lot of what you said here is just plain wrong or at least very misguided.

Rand Paul and Bernie Sanders are not compatible save for a couple of issues.  That will go nowhere.  Given Rand Paul's previous statements and actions (not just with Russia but general voting), his leadership is not wanted or needed.  Rand Paul is a trumpublican.

Trump never wanted to debate anyone. Hell it's questionable that he even wanted to actually win. This was plainly obvious as we got to the general.  He only said those things about Bernie because he, like many others, had the gut feeling that Hillary was going to win the primary anyway.  He was stoking division and fear in the Democratic primary process.  Besides, even if it was someone with whom he'd truly want to debate, he'd only want it because he would think it ""easy"".  And by ""easy"", we know that means he'd attempt to bully him and bend every rule because Sanders is rather honest for a politician.  There were no warm feelings, no ""secret connection"".   Trump isn't a populist - he's a nationalist.  He said so himself in front of tons of cameras just a few days ago.  There are big differences between a true populist and a nationalist.  You know who else were nationalists?  Hitler and Mussolini.  Trump will say whatever garbage gets him applause from some of the worst of humanity, and those who don't fall in line 100% are the ""enemy"".

So ""in lieu"" of all the facts - that is since the start of his presidency where he has done everything to stoke divisions within our people and our international allies, calling his political opponents ""enemies of the people"", continued wars, accepting hundreds of billions of dollars in arms deals from countries that murder journalists simply because ""it's a good deal"" - you still think Hillary is more ""evil""?  Regardless of how you interpret what Hillary said in the campaign, there are clear actions by which we can judge them.  And by that, Trump has demonstrated an almost vitriolic hatred for anyone who doesn't get on board his bullshit 100%.  And now with the longstanding nuclear arms deal about to be thrown out the window, who is actually the evil one wanting nuclear war?  Who has kept our troops in Syria?  Who encourages violence against fellow Americans?  Why I do believe that would be our CURRENT so-called president.  Trump has shown no real compassion, no real desire to lead - only rule, no desire to unify - only divide.  He would have Canada and Mexico be our enemies while thuggish, BULLYING rulers like Putin, Xi and Duterte are his role models.  

Was Hillary great?  Probably not.  She said some dumb things.  That usually happens in a relatively normal campaign process.  I'm not saying Hillary was a saint or not a warhawk - it's one of the reasons I couldn't vote for her in the primary.  But if you think I voted for Trump over Hillary in the general you're mad.  Trump showed us his true colors early on. He is no populist.

I'm going to jump over the conspiracy nut stuff and go right to this ""new world"" business. While it's a commendable goal to want to be a shining example to the world, it's harder to do in practice when the place is being run by a flaming turd who brings out the worst we have to offer.  ""Western World"" or ""New World"", all of that is over now.  Business and trade are global, culture is global, communication is global, humanity is global.  

We can all agree denuclearization is a great goal, but it's harder to do in practice when we have demonstrably horrid leaders who would like nothing more than to acquire and/or use such weapons to exercise power.  Denuclearization is a process that requires all sides cooperating in a joint effort.

Trump and the republicans have destroyed any notion of America being a beacon or shining example of anything for many years to come.  Countries will be looking elsewhere to share resources and support.
",fuzztooth,e8jt2dp,SandersForPresident
Sanders 2020: Bout Fckin Time,sasiralla,e8k9doy,SandersForPresident
"with every democrat planing on trying to co-op his message in the primary,   foresight is 2020,  that is what leadership is,  not just following polls.",StormalongJuan,e8kuf14,SandersForPresident
"It says ""Democrats need to go with a strong candidate, not just one they agree with.""",Prankster_Bob,e8nav4c,SandersForPresident
It's the dnc... obstructing American progress with incompetents is what they do. If they block Bernie again I'm going to vote Republican. Hopefully they learned their lesson.,hammynogood,e8jo33f,SandersForPresident
Try to turn off the propaganda. Not going to help. Or maybe it helps but it's not right.,Prankster_Bob,e8nath6,SandersForPresident
"> not just with Russia but general voting)

But Rand is right on Russia. I completely disagree with Rand on economics.

> Trump and the republicans have destroyed any notion of America being a beacon or shining example of anything for many years to come. Countries

Oh please. This is a right-wing talking point that tries to hide America's history of oppression. It's disappointing to see a so-called ""progressive"" subreddit repeating this non-sense talking point.

The democratic party was complicit in the exploitation of migrant workers including the support for the policies which destabilized those countries. They supported NAFTA which destabilized Mexico workforce. They supported a coup in Honduras. 

 Obama was called [the deporter in cheif](https://www.thenation.com/article/the-deportation-machine-obama-built-for-president-trump/). [the democratic party support the harsh crime laws](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/apr/15/bill-clinton-crime-bill-hillary-black-lives-thomas-frank) and [deregulation](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/apr/19/wall-street-deregulation-clinton-advisers-obama). [The democratic party just decided to take fossil fuel money again](http://time.com/5365422/democratic-party-fossil-fuel-contributions-labor/)

We have been experiencing a corporate takeover of our system for decades. If you find yourself just blaming Republicans, then you're probably a victim of partisan propaganda. I'm not doing a false equivalence. But it's clear the Republicans aren't the only problem.

We're not talking about building a perfect world. We're talking about fighting against the corporate takeover of our system which has to include the democratic party.

Your entire argument was nothing but democratic establishment talking points. That holding the democratic party accountable means we want to get rid of the entire system and are looking for the perfect instead of the good. That we should blame voters who decided to vote for Trump or third party.

No wonder why the democratic party is wiped out. No where in your analysis is a blueprint for making the party better. It's just a laundry list of excuses and blaming everyone else.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l4qe3,SandersForPresident
"It means that they should have gone with Bernie in 2016, getting a jab at the Democrats",Prankster_Bob,e8nar9s,SandersForPresident
"Yeah because that always turns out real great for the country.  ""Sticking it"" to the DNC by voting republican is like a republican's strategy of ""librul tears"" as governing policy.  It's ridiculous and accomplishes nothing.  If you actually cared about the country, you wouldn't be so quick to just ""vote republican"" because ""that'll show 'em"".  I'm in no way defending Hillary here, but this idea that voting republican because the DNC hurt my fee-fees is in any way intelligent is beyond comprehension.

Right now, a republican vote means a vote for Donald Trump, a vote for hate, a vote for the worst America has to offer.  Anyone who seriously voted Trump but Bernie in primaries has little care for the agenda and revolution Sanders is trying to bring about.",fuzztooth,e8jqqe4,SandersForPresident
"Yeah. Voting Republican makes no sense. However, ""voting blue no matter who"" without any kind of demands and after the party rigs elections against you also makes no sense.

We need to build independent institutions outside the democratic party that can hold it accountable. We cannot just blindly unite behind the democratic party or else the party will never improve.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l5aow,SandersForPresident
"Right. So we should show the dnc that no matter what they do, we will vote for any candidate they put in front of us. Even if it's not the people's choice. I agree that the current administration is trash. But I'm not willing to let the only party that is not ""to far gone"" become a party that IS ""to far gone"". I will deal with 4 more years of shit if it means the Democratic party learns to play ball with the populace. 
Ps. I don't appreciate you insulting my intelligence and my level of caring for my country simply because I don't share the same opinion as you. I served my country and can assure you that I love my country.",hammynogood,e8k3t4s,SandersForPresident
">So we should show the dnc that no matter what they do, we will vote for any candidate they put in front of us.

Or you and like-minded voters could impact the general election candidates by voting in the primaries. And attending the party conventions. And promoting organizations that collect money from small donors.

If Republicans continue to win at every level, then it tells party leadership that voters want more Republican-style policies.",pablonieve,e8k6egd,SandersForPresident
"Lol. I think they know what the middle class wants and its not republican style policies. The problem is, they own the media. Most people would agree with Bernie's message but they can't hear it. Do you see him on any major networks? Nope. That's because they are pushing the candidate that corporate America wants. They can not continue to get away with this. giving them your vote  is the worst thing you can do. I'm not saying vote Republican on every level. I'm saying that if there is an instance where they obviously force a candidate on me, they can kiss my vote goodbye. That is not how our forefathers envisioned our country operating and it goes against the American spirit to just submit to them and give them what they want. If you let them decide who your candidate is and you just play along and give them your vote then you, my friend, are a sheep. ",hammynogood,e8kil62,SandersForPresident
What attack? When did you ever hear Bernie or his staff call anything an attack? That’s not the Bernie I know or have been voting for since the 80’s.,994Bernie,e8lli5e,SandersForPresident
What are the demographics of these men you know? Were they ever likely to support Sanders before this incident?,Pyroechidna1,e8ll4gf,SandersForPresident
"I've heard this too. Really, southern black people really fucked up in 2016. They're paying the price for that now and will be doing so for a generation. The same goes for all the other vulnerable communities who failed to support the candidate that could protect them from trump.",Zincoshine_2018,e8lld3f,SandersForPresident
What word would you like to use to describe [this exchange](https://b.thumbs.redditmedia.com/nsrmSU8ppH-ofMInSNMSu9z40Xrl2ofWH30lf8IGs8Q.jpg)?,court12b,e8lnix2,SandersForPresident
"To be honest, it was a possibility but they are your typical ""dude"" and are inclined to think of kindness as weakness.

It's absurd how effective it was at getting them to dismiss Sanders as a candidate. ",court12b,e8lngpd,SandersForPresident
Freedom of Speech. It’s what makes America Great.,994Bernie,e8o3kto,SandersForPresident
"[Washington:](https://www.sos.wa.gov/elections/register.aspx) October 29  

---  

[North Carolina:](https://www.ncsbe.gov/Voters/Registering-to-vote) From October 17-November 3, residents can register and vote at the same time.  

---  

[California:](https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/) Residents can still register at an election office and vote with a provisional ballot.  
[Colorado:](https://www.sos.state.co.us/voter/pages/pub/olvr/findVoterReg.xhtml) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Connecticut:](https://voterregistration.ct.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Washington, DC:](https://www.dcboe.org/Voters/Register-To-Vote/Check-Voter-Registration-Status) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Hawaii:](https://elections.hawaii.gov/frequently-asked-questions/online-voter-registration/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Idaho:](https://apps.idahovotes.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Illinois:](https://www.elections.il.gov/votinginformation/register.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Iowa:](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/voterinformation/voterregistration.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Maine:](https://www.maine.gov/sos/cec/elec/voter-info/votreg.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Minnesota:](https://www.sos.state.mn.us/elections-voting/register-to-vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Montana:](https://sosmt.gov/elections/vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[New Hampshire:](http://sos.nh.gov/HowRegVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Utah:](http://voter.utah.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Vermont:](https://www.sec.state.vt.us/elections/voters/registration.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wisconsin:](http://myvote.wi.gov/en-US/VoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wyoming:](https://soswy.state.wy.us/Elections/RegisteringToVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
  
---

[North Dakota:](https://vip.sos.nd.gov/) None — just bring ID  

[Source](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/10/7/17947768/voter-registration-deadline-verify-2018-midterms)",Chartis,e8kioxb,SandersForPresident
"Are there really only a couple dozen people still in this sub? I only ever see 20-30 upvotes for these posts. I kinda feel like reddit may be lowering the numbers?
His instagram feed always has like 120k likes for each post. ",Bencolawebs,e8jl114,SandersForPresident
"It will never happen because then who would join the military? 

Last president to stand up to the complex got ganked. ",KARMAHARMAHAR,e8j9uoy,SandersForPresident
"Let's help him get his numbers up and pay attention to what he's showing us: https://www.instagram.com/berniesanders  

As for here, we have 212k subscribers. Top posts of the day are getting ~140,000 views this week. Given that he hasn't announced his candidacy yet that's a fair amount.   

We do what we can to educate, organize, and mobilize our political revolution to revitalize democracy. Help spread Bernie's ideas around Reddit & the net. But most importantly rally voter engagement to the polls for the next 10 days. ",Chartis,e8jlknr,SandersForPresident
That further proves why we absolutely shouldn't stop standing up.,Bottombottoms,e8jjqv6,SandersForPresident
[Using Raytheon guided missiles](https://www.mintpressnews.com/saudi-arabia-kills-civilians-in-yemen-with-another-us-made-raytheon-bomb/251104/),BopTheDrass,e8kumaf,SandersForPresident
"This guy is an economist for the neoliberal think tank Center for American Progress. The same thinktank which gets money from Saudi Arabia and headed by Neera Tanden, who spends all her time smearing progressives.

Pretty much all he does is criticize Republicans all day without proposing any bold policies of his own. One should be suspicious of any democrats that he is canvasing for. He is not interested in making the world better...He is a partisan hack who only cares about what's good for establishment democrats.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l02so,SandersForPresident
Bob Kogan is the chief mathematician for the Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee: [Senator Bernie Sanders](https://www.budget.senate.gov/ranking-member/newsroom),Chartis,e8l0ilh,SandersForPresident
"Yes. The Senate Budget Committee tends to be filled with neoliberals. 

[See his linkedin page](https://www.linkedin.com/in/bobby-kogan-ba417a69). He worked for Center of American Progress. He is a neoliberal. 

You don't even need to see his working history. His entire criticism of the Republican party is from a neoliberal perspective. He fear mongers about deficits. His criticism of Republicans are only in terms of preventing what Obama achieved and nothing more. 

",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l1xvm,SandersForPresident
"I have the utmost confidence in Bernie, which is a large part of why I want to see him in charge of the executive branch. The Ranking Member's Office *is* Bernie's office. He picks solid people to affiliate with, including:  


* [Dr. Jane Sanders](https://twitter.com/janeosanders)  
* [Warren Gunnels](https://twitter.com/gunnelswarren?lang=en) Bernie's Policy
* [Josh Miller-Lewis](https://twitter.com/jmillerlewis?lang=en) Bernie's Press
* [Matt Duss](https://twitter.com/mattduss) Bernie's Foreign Policy
* [Ari Rabin-Havt](https://twitter.com/AriRabinHavt) Bernie's Deputy Chief of Staff
* [Bob Kogan](https://twitter.com/BBKogan) Bernie's Economics
* [Sanders Institute Fellows](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/fellows) (not picked by him but still since we're on the topic I'd like to highlight the team)
* [Jeff Weaver](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100009318073233) Bernie's Campaign
  
Bob is good people, solid, trustworthy, and on point with his work.",Chartis,e8l29m8,SandersForPresident
"Kogan's economic positions directly contradict MMT'ers policy positions by being a deficit hawk and advocating for very small incremental changes like Obama. All Kogan does is fear monger about the Republicans and defend neoliberal status quo. 

I'm sure he is a nice guy. I love Bernie. But I don't agree with everyone Bernie affiliates with. For example, I think he should fire whoever told him to buy into the whole anti-Russia narrative and remain silent as facebook deplatforms hundreds of leftist groups under the pretext of fake news. But as a socialist, Kogan is part of the problem. He blames everything on Republicans and pretends that neoliberalism doesn't exist.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l40s6,SandersForPresident
"Kogan does superb work. And from what I've seen he's against war production when there's much better ways to utilize America's production capacity. On the other hand using such hyperbolic absolutes as ""entirely"" ""only"" ""nothing more"" & ""all"" make me happy you don't have power to fire Bernie's staff and make me question your judgement. You even edit your comments without saying what's been changed while slandering a stand-up dude. Kogan is of yuge benefit, a true boon to our efforts. Specifically I'm in favor of his personal civic efforts here to go canvass tomorrow and hope you'll try to compete with his efforts in your area. As to Russia, I follow Bernie pretty closely and from as far as I can tell he's speaking from his heart about an ongoing issue of significant importance. 

---    

In the he-said she-said between the Netherlands and Russia, my goodwill favors the Dutch and we await the outcome of the independent investigation that may find this and other evidence constitutes further proof:  

>In April 2016, Fancy Bear accessed the Washington servers of the Democrats; Cozy Bear had done so as early as the summer of 2015. Once more, the group was caught red-handed by the Dutch... The information shared by The Netherlands about the hacks at the DNC ended up on the desk of Robert Mueller, the Special Prosecutor leading the FBI investigation into possible Russian interference in the American elections. As early as December, the New York Times reported that information from, among others, Australia, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands had propelled the FBI investigation.

-[NOS](https://nos.nl/nieuwsuur/artikel/2213767-dutch-intelligence-first-to-alert-u-s-about-russian-hack-of-democratic-party.html)

>Dutch spies determined that Cozy Bear was operated by Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service... witnessed the Russians breaking into servers owned by the Democratic National Committee  

-[de Volkskrant](https://www.volkskrant.nl/wetenschap/dutch-agencies-provide-crucial-intel-about-russia-s-interference-in-us-elections%7Eb4f8111b/)  

>The indictments announced today by the Justice Department confirm once again that Russia interfered in our elections to benefit Donald Trump. The fact that these indictments name 12 members of Russia’s military intelligence service strongly suggests that the interference was directed from the highest levels of the Russian government. It’s imperative that Special Counsel Mueller be allowed to continue his investigation free of pressure.  

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-statement-on-russia-probe-indictments)

It would be beneficial to: 

>* Move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same  

>* Demand that the sanctions against Russia be fully implemented by the president  

>* Not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-introduces-resolution-to-protect-american-democracy-from-russian-meddling)  

>Russia actively worked to influence our 2016 presidential election and continues to try and destabilize democracies around the world, including ours. 

-[Sanders Statement on Iran Sanctions Resolution](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-sanctions-resolution)    

>It is unacceptable for Russia to interfere in our elections here in the United States... There must be consequences for such actions.  

-[Sanders Statement on Iran and Russia Sanctions](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-and-russia-sanctions)

>It is a real political attack by Russia against the United States.   

-Bernie, [March 30^th '17](http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1703/30/wolf.01.html)  

> the evidence is now overwhelming that Russia interfered in the last election, and in doing that is undermining American democracy.  

-Bernie, [Oct 30th '17](https://www.pscp.tv/NYCMayor/1LyGBRVrEnkGN?t=1494)

>At the end of the campaign... they played a really disgusting role because they don't believe in anything. All they want to do is sow division in this country, bring people against each other.   

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 21^st '18](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)  

>2016 election right here in the United States, where we now know that the Russian government was engaged in a massive effort to undermine one of our greatest strengths: the integrity of our elections, and our faith in our own democracy.  

-Bernie, [Sept 21^st '17](https://www.thenation.com/article/bernie-sanders-just-gave-one-of-the-finest-speeches-of-his-career)  

>It's a big deal. Bob Mueller was given the assignment of determining whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to undermine American democracy. And today is a major step forward with the indictment of Manafort.  

>I worry very much about the attacks we're seeing every day in a variety of ways, not only from the Russians.  

>Of all the issues and problems facing this country: Making sure we fight to protect and revitalize American democracy and take on all of those people who undermine what men and women fought and died to defend, that is our major task.  

-Bernie, [All Hallows' Eve '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=13&v=Omiw5pRojto)
",Chartis,e8l4nhb,SandersForPresident
"I provided reasons for why I disagreed with Kagan. I told you that he worked for the Neoliberal think tank Center for American Progress, that his published works only criticize Republicans and offer no bold alternative, and that he fear mongers over the deficit. 

Using the term neoliberal is not a slander. I'm saying that he ideological closer to Obama and Clinton. 


>Specifically I'm in favor of his personal civic efforts here to go canvass tomorrow and hope you'll try to compete with his efforts in your area. 

Good for him for GOTV. Republicans do GOTV efforts too. That doesn't say much about his ideological background.

I canvass and volunteer for any candidate who has socialist policies. But I don't ""vote blue no matter who"". More importantly, it's what we do between elections that matter most. 

> Specifically I'm in favor of his personal civic efforts here to go canvass tomorrow and hope you'll try to compete with his efforts in your area


By quoting Sanders supporting the anti-Russia narrative, I hope you aren't suggesting that you support facebook censoring left-wing groups. There is a reason why Sanders is quiet on this topic. He doesn't want to appear soft on Russia for his 2020 ambitions.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l61j4,SandersForPresident
"You're not exactly a bastion of trustworthiness. So far you've either edited your comments without noting what's been changed or gotten such basics wrong as the spelling of his name. But the larger issue is your baseless attacks against one of Bernie's staffers rallying civic engagement.

Using the term neoliberal may not be a slander but your hyperbolic assertions are since you're wrong. For example last week he advocated for eliminating poverty, providing pre-k education, doubling the budgets of the NSF, NIH, CDC, NOAA, & USGS, making public colleges & universities tuition-free, doubling the meal allowance for SNAP, and ending homelessness in America.  

What does say much about him are his efforts to help people and Bernie's warranted trust in his worth as a worker and as a person.  

The reason Bernie is vocal about Russia is clear: To move to protect American democracy by enacting sanctions, preventing interference with the independent investigation, rally public support, and to help protect democracy worldwide.  

Bernie has been supportive of social media companies ensuring appropriate regulation of their platforms in this general regard. 

>We have got to get Facebook, Twitter, and to all these platforms and say, 'Sorry you have not done a good job and you're gonna have to change what you're doing'.  

-Bernie Sanders, Feb 21^st '18 [@15:01](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)  

And he holds the press in great esteem as an institution:  

>Our founders enshrined the press as the one profession specifically protected in the Bill of Rights. ""A well informed citizenry is necessary for Democracy to function correctly.""  

-Bernie Sanders, [June 22^nd '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCWRB9tSRIo)  

>1^st Amendment rights, that's what media is about.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/2brJG8pbvg4?t=267)  

Assuming to know Bernie's reasoning on the matter without sources speaks to the validity of your claims.  ",Chartis,e8l7rzb,SandersForPresident
"It's not baseless. The center for American Progress is a well-known neoliberal think tank. And your argument that we should trust him due to simply being affiliating with Bernie is bizarre. 

Okay? So I made an edit without updating the message? It happens. I'll provide a reason next time. But it would be better to focus on the substance of my arguments.

>e advocated for eliminating poverty, providing pre-k education, doubling the budgets of the NSF, NIH, CDC, NOAA, & USGS, making public colleges & universities tuition-free, doubling the meal allowance for SNAP, and ending homelessness in America.

What a coincidence? The Center for American Progress advocates for [universal pre-k](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/early-childhood/reports/2016/04/05/132750/how-much-can-high-quality-universal-pre-k-reduce-achievement-gaps/), [eliminating poverty](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/ext/2017/11/03/442339/progressive-plan-ending-poverty-including-rural-poverty-america/), [expanding SNAP](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2018/05/01/450214/tax-cuts-top-1-percent-cost-snap/), and [ending homelessness](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/lgbt/reports/2015/02/02/105754/beyond-4-walls-and-a-roof/) too!

Do you think Center for American Progress is a neoliberal think tank? Or am I doing baseless attacks against them too?

>Assuming to know Bernie's reasoning on the matter without sources speaks to the validity of your claims.

[Hundreds of left-wing groups have gotten banned from facebook](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/oct/16/facebook-political-activism-pages-inauthentic-behavior-censorship) as part of the anti-Russia hysteria, including cop accountability websites . And Bernie has not spoken out in defense of a single one of those groups. Any politician who speaks out in defense of these groups will be smeared as being pro-Russian. It's a legitimate concern given the current climate. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l9akb,SandersForPresident
">It happens.  

When you cause it to. Which, alongside your factual errors and character assassination, speaks to more about you than about Mr. Kogan.    

>Character assassination. What a wonderful idea. Ordinary assassination only works once, but this one works every day.

― Terry Pratchett, The Truth   

What was said was that your hyperbolic absolutes such as ""entirely"" ""only"" ""nothing more"" & ""all"" *are* baseless. 

Like I said, part of the reason I want to see Bernie in office is that I have warranted confidence in his decision making. As evidenced by his general patterns his judgement has proven to be trustworthy. These groups on the other hand have been acting in a manner that's reasonable for a business to take action against in the current climate.  

>Nearly all the page owners contacted by the Guardian say they use “backup” or fake accounts  

And speaking of the climate, Bernie's been on a national tour with an election right around the corner. No reporter I've seen has put the question to him to date.  

The substance of Bob's assertion is that we should help rally voter engagement. And I think that's a stellar idea worthy of support.  

>I hope you all do the same... consider writing postcards encouraging people to vote. Most campaigns have postcard initiatives.   

edit: 'evidence' to 'evidenced'",Chartis,e8l9wkj,SandersForPresident
"They got the movement so united, we all tried to walk through the exit gate at the exact same time.  Otherwise, great seeing Sanders and my Representative on stage together.

Most of his speech was concerned with highlighting past progressive successes and pointing out how Trump is...hell, I don't even need to finish that sentence, you all know how Trump is.  He did mention a study at one point on climate change projections, which apparently concluded that we have a 12-year window to dramatically change our energy & fuel sectors' footprint, as a species.  Did anyone catch what study that was?, because my first thought hearing that timeframe was, ""well, we're screwed, then.""",capsaicinintheeyes,e8kaat6,SandersForPresident
How many thousands is that?,BopTheDrass,e8l3khh,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, the IPCC released a terrifying special report at the beginning of the month. It got coverage for a couple days, but then the news stopped caring about it, like they always do. [Here's](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/07/climate/ipcc-climate-report-2040.html) an article about it.

>The authors found that if greenhouse gas emissions continue at the current rate, the atmosphere will warm up by as much as 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Celsius) above preindustrial levels by 2040, inundating coastlines and intensifying droughts and poverty. Previous work had focused on estimating the damage if average temperatures were to rise by a larger number, 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius), because that was the threshold scientists previously considered for the most severe effects of climate change.

>The new report, however, shows that many of those effects will come much sooner, at the 2.7-degree mark. 

I must say, hearing Bernie talk about that report makes me so happy. It makes me believe he actually takes the threat seriously. Almost no politician does.",ParadigmacticPassion,e8kt5ue,SandersForPresident
Some reports say 3500.,gideonvwainwright,e8lf94e,SandersForPresident
"[James Zogby:](
https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1056164035220160512)  

* 4 Palestinians killed, hundreds shot and not a word - NOT A SINGLE DAMN WORD - in the Washington Post or the New York Times. #palestinianlivesmatter. 
",Chartis,e8jvibc,SandersForPresident
">Militarism is a gruesome sickness. Some people are trying to cure our country of this cancer. But pacifists are fighting an uphill battle.

>On Sunday, October 23rd “About 1,500 women and allied men marched on the Pentagon on Sunday to demand an end to perpetual war and the funding of education, health care and other social needs instead,” reported Joe Lauria of the progressive website Consortium News.

>Mainstream/corporate journalistic outlets memory-holed the event with a total media blackout.

.......................................

>But apathy and laziness aren’t the main causes of low attendance at real, bona-fide Left protests and demonstrations (as opposed to coopted-by-the-Democratic Party marches like the annual January 20th Women’s Marches against Trump).

>Our real problem is that there isn’t a real, bona-fide Left journalism outlet in the United States.

>One that’s smart, i.e., well-managed. Not in the derpy leaderless consensus style that destroyed the Occupy movement, but top-down by brilliant Machiavellian can’t-be-bought leftist schemers who know how to motivate and build an organization.

>One that’s well-funded. Not by some control-freak billionaire who can petulantly renege on his big promises after he loses interest or gets corrupted, but by generous ongoing crowdsourcing that guarantees editorial independence to an uncompromisingly left-wing team of editors with big budgets to hire kickass investigative reporters, back out-of-the-box journalists, humorists and editorialists. 

.....................................................

>One that’s entertaining. The way FoxNews and Rush Limbaugh are entertaining but MSNBC and Air America aren’t/weren’t. Because humor and entertainment are what attract new readers/listeners/watchers and keep loyalists coming back.

>I only heard about the Women’s March on the Pentagon one day before. It was by happenstance. (I live in New York, six hours from DC, but like most people I can’t just drop everything and skip town with a night’s notice.)

>That’s ridiculous.

>I’ve been a leftie cartoonist and columnist for nearly three decades. Yet I have hardly ever received an email from a left-leaning organization inviting me to publicize or attend or cover a protest demonstration, or a press release explaining that one was about to occur. I’ve asked other pundits; they never hear from the Left either.

>Meanwhile I’m constantly getting talking point lists, action memos, press releases and all sorts of sundry propaganda from right-wing organizations as well as the mainline Republican and Democratic party apparatuses. Which is all redundant because all that crap gets ample coverage on cable news, network news, talk radio, NPR, newspapers and news websites, not to mention social media.

>I don’t need more junk email. Point is, my leftism-free inbox is a barometer of the state of the Left: disorganized and disconnected and incapable of broadcasting its message. If a protest march falls in the woods—or on the Washington Mall—does it make a sound? Not if the word doesn’t get out. Not if no one reports it after the fact.

......................................................

>**Grassroots organizing will never build into 1960s-level mass demonstrations without big, rich, smart, cool media distribution channels to give it space to breathe and expand.**

>**First, we need a big-ass left-wing media group to educate people about what’s going on.** You can’t expect people to get riled up about what the U.S. is doing in Yemen if they don’t know what’s going on there. Mainstream corporate media doesn’t cover the U.S. role in the proxy civil war.

>Second, to redefine what’s “normal.” In the current media landscape, opposing war is abnormal. That message is subliminal: when’s the last time, during a foreign policy crisis, that a mainstream pundit suggested the U.S. simply stay out of it? A smart, well-funded, entertaining-as-hell media organization would provide an alternative to the establishment narrative. You can’t dream of peace if it’s not in your brain as a possibility in the first place.

............................................................

>**In the 1960s the corporate mainstream media allowed antiwar, pro-civil rights and other antiestablishment journalists and pundits to disseminate their views on TV (Cronkite criticizing the Vietnam War), on the opinion pages of major newspapers and in bestselling books. And they covered protests.**

>**No more. The Left has been ruthlessly purged.**

>**Not one single opinion writer or staff columnist or cartoonist employed by an American newspaper is a real, bonafide leftist—not a single one even supported Bernie Sanders (whose politics are basically McGovern in 1972 and was supported by half of Democrats) during the 2016 primaries.**

>**Not one single TV or major radio talk show host is a real, bonafide leftist. None supported Bernie.**

>**The same goes for “liberal” outlets like The Atlantic, Salon, Slate, etc.**

>**It’s censorship. It’s systemic. It’s killing the Left.**

>Considering that it’s impossible for the Left to get coverage for anything, it’s a miracle that 1,500 people showed up for the Women’s March on the Pentagon.

>If we had a real, smart, well-funded, organized media organization to publicize the news and the world from a socialist or communist viewpoint—an ideology shared by at least one out of three American voters overall and 57% of Democrats—there could easily have been 150,000 or 1,500,000.


",gideonvwainwright,e8jjblo,SandersForPresident
"
Sat, October 27, 2018

11:00 AM – 12:00 PM PDT



Berkeley Community Theater

1930 Allston Way

Berkeley, CA 94704",gideonvwainwright,e8jhh0b,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/amaaggregator] [AMA: I’m Sarah Smith, I’m running for Congress in Washington with Brand New Congress, Justice Democrats, and Our Revolution! AMA! (10 Pacific\/1 Eastern) at r\/WayoftheBern](https://www.reddit.com/r/AMAAggregator/comments/9rvouv/ama_im_sarah_smith_im_running_for_congress_in/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8jzmt0,SandersForPresident
"[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1055921488140865537)  

* Standing with workers on picket lines is something I've done my entire life-- that's what I do and what I believe. Unions are my family.  

* It was an honor to be on the picket line today with [@UNITEHERE30](https://twitter.com/UNITEHERE30) in San Diego. The fight you are waging and the courage you are showing here is exactly the fight that must be waged in every state in this country. One job should be enough for people to live with dignity.

* What we are saying to Westin, Marriott and every corporation that makes billions of dollars in profits is: Pay your workers a living wage! [#MarriottStrike](https://twitter.com/hashtag/MarriottStrike?src=hash)",Chartis,e8ikna6,SandersForPresident
">I am deeply saddened by the news of a shooting at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. Several years ago a hateful person walked into a church in Charleston. Today there was another act of violence – this time at a synagogue.

>We don’t know all the details yet, but in too many of these cases the pattern is the same. The gun delivers the fatal shots and hate pulls the trigger. We have got to do everything we can to end these horrific acts of violence and address the growing epidemic of hatred, as well as gun safety in this country.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157412616232908)",Chartis,e8k98ud,SandersForPresident
"Gun control is a losing topic. 

Why doesn't anyone bring it up outside mass shootings? Because it's a political non-starter. The only action both sides take is pandering to their base. 

Why does everyone want to ban semi-automatic rifles, even though they account for only ~3% of firearm homicides? Because it's an easy target since you will never be able to ban handguns, which account for a whopping ~70%. 

",ranchandpizza,e8ksrfw,SandersForPresident
"Likely because of the [mass shootings.](https://i.imgur.com/Ud7B2qw.jpg) Yeah, mainly [the mass shootings.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mass_shootings_in_the_United_States) The 11,000+ homicides leave a lot of pain behind that people want addressed, so there's that too. Including ~1 a day from semi-automatic rifles.

There's a lot of [political bullshit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxD3o-9H1lY) out there, and the kids are winning.  

>What was amazingly impressive about these young people was that... they resolved to stand up and fight back, and... go around the country to do everything that they can to make certain that no more young people are mowed down and slaughtered in schools...   

>The American people are saying, 'Enough is enough'...  

>* 97% of the American people support universal background checks...  
>* 83% of the American people indicated support for a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases...  
>* 67% of the people polled by [Quinnipiac]( https://poll.qu.edu/national/release-detail?ReleaseID=2521) support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons...  
>* A [CNN poll]( https://ssrs.com/seven-in-10-favor-tighter-gun-laws/)... 70% of people want stricter gun laws...  
>* 87% support laws to prevent convicted felons and the mentally ill from owning guns...   
>* 71% support banning anyone under 21 from buying a gun...  
>* 63% support a ban on the sale and possession of high capacity magazines...  
>* 57% support an assault weapons ban...  
>* 56% say that stricter guns laws would reduce gun related deaths...  

>The American people are demanding that we have the courage to stand up to the NRA and finally take some action that will move us in the right direction...   

>* Universal background checks...  
>* Ending the so called 'Gunshow Loophole'...  
>* Addressing the so called 'Strawmen' purchases...  
>* Ban assault weapons...  
>* Any American that is suffering today from a mental health crisis should be able to get the mental health care they need now, not two months from now...   
>* If somebody is a stalker, if somebody is convicted of domestic violence, if somebody is under a restraining order... that person should not be owning a gun...  

>In a bi-partisan way we can come together, do what the American people want us to do: Pass common sense gun safety legislation that is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 27^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLG2Xq6B-f4)  

Bernie is helping to remedy the national issue of kids in schools killing each other. [They're on his side too](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) because he's on their side. The way they are stepping up and leading is inspiring.  

This hill is worth fighting for, so other don't have to die on it.",Chartis,e8ku9cn,SandersForPresident
"1. Your copy-pasta didn't even address what I said. 
2. Half of the items in your list are already illegal. 
3. You mentioned banning ""assault weapons"" 3 times which isn't even a real classification of firearm.
4. Referring to #4, I assume you mean rifles, which I ask once again, it's 3% of firearm homicides, why are you not calling for a total handgun ban?  
5. The vast majority of firearm crime is committed by illegally possessed firearms, what makes you think more laws are the answer...? ",ranchandpizza,e8kwhd7,SandersForPresident
"1. Yes I did.
2. No they're not.  
3. The poll mentioned that term, as did Senator Sanders. It's often used and understood.  
4. Why is #4 self referential? And I'll address it again. The ~1 needless firearm homicide per day from semi-automatic rifles leave behind a lot of pain. To answer the question you only asked this time: This is a winning slate of common sense gun legislation that may bring the US to rates of gun deaths approximate to the rest of the world while respecting the 2^nd amendment. But I'm not personally against a handgun ban. If you think it's wise, rally the public, & press for public policy I'm willing to not use mine in the US anymore.  
5. Public regulation of firearm policy is seeing results around the world. As are other laws. That's where the term common sense comes from. But you're welcome to locate & research studies on the topic, be careful of bias though. The gun lobby is weakening and lashing out these days, they're desperate and dangerous.",Chartis,e8kx25f,SandersForPresident
"> while respecting the 2nd amendment. But I'm not personally against a handgun ban. 

Lol. 

> around the world

I only care about America because we are the only country to enshrine the right to bear arms in our Constitution. ",ranchandpizza,e8ky97e,SandersForPresident
"IMO it isn't a laughing matter, but c'est la vie. And though America is part of the world (and your shortsighted, selfish, and narrow vision aside) it does address your question, as does the point about the effectiveness of other laws, and common sense. Thank you though for the inspiration. I had just updated the sub's pic and was feeling a bit apathetic about changing it again. I appreciate the motivation, and the opportunity to hone my ideas on the topic.",Chartis,e8kyuom,SandersForPresident
">No, President Trump, the United States does not have the cleanest air in the world. Right now, Americans in 45 cities, including Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, and Los Angeles, breathe air containing levels of fine particulate matter above the World Health Organization’s recommended levels, and the problem is only going to get worse thanks to your constant efforts to prop up the fossil fuel industry and roll back environmental protections. Mr. Trump, stop the hypocrisy. So far, you are the most anti-environmental president in modern history.  

Article: [Three misleading things about Trump's clean air tweet](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/paloma/the-energy-202/2018/10/23/the-energy-202-three-misleading-things-about-trump-s-clean-air-tweet/5bce2eef1b326b559037d272/?fbclid=IwAR2SyYoXThizgjJ2H37yu1RXymDtRbV6aqhkVDSPqUFCLi_NP93rYCUy2KQ)  

1. The map Trump tweeted out came from an April report done by the World Health Organization  
2. The claim added to the map — that ""none in U.S."" are exposed to pollution levels above WHO's recommendations — is inaccurate.  
3. The United States does not have the world's best air quality, as Trump claimed. ",Chartis,e8hq5k5,SandersForPresident
It's about to get even worse.  Brazil is about to elect their own (even more extreme) version of Trump and he too hates the environment.  The Amazon is going to be destroyed.,TheLightningbolt,e8hxjgn,SandersForPresident
"They were also putting out tip envelopes in hotels for a while. Like, how clueless can you be?",lmaccaro,e8icdvb,SandersForPresident
"In another thread someone commented about how progressives didn't win a ton of federal seats during this election year and so that had them feeling down a bit.  But it seemed like concern trolling because they pretended like all the state level victories we've had didn't much matter.  So I'll leave my comment below from that thread because I think it addresses some or many of your concerns:

We first have to remember that this is a marathon not a sprint and that change takes place from the bottom up. It may take 10 years or more to fully implement the most important progressive agenda policies.

It may not seem like it from a federal election point of view but from a policy point of view we've already seen massive progressive victories in a very short amount of time. 70% of Americans now support medicare for all, 66% support legalizing marijuana, and 60% support publicly funded college. Many cities and now Amazon have raised their minimum wage to $15/hr. Most of these positions were considered radical or extreme by the corporate mainstream media just two short years ago.

I think it is a mistake to exclude lower state races as important as those victories significantly increase the progressive bench of candidates that can go on to federal office in the near future. Also, that a democratic socialist like Bernie Sanders was competitive for POTUS in 2016 and now is consistently at the top of the polls for 2020 is a massive victory for the progressive movement.

It's also important to remember that the establishment has way more money, they have the media, they have the name recognition and they have a pre-existing network of corporate supporting hacks, so in other words it will be extremely difficult to dislodge them at the federal level and yet we are seeing some of these victories take place. I can't recall the exact statistic but incumbent politicians have a large advantage from just being the incumbent alone, so it's already an uphill battle just taking on the current seated politician in any race.

Recall that Bernie did extremely well with the younger people of our country. As time goes by we lose more of the conservative voters and gain more progressive voters.

Also, midterm elections typically don't see the turnout that presidential elections do, yet we still had some federal election victories and tons of state level victories. Many are thinking that 2018 was just the appetizer for how progressives will do in 2020.

Remember too that change in politics was by design suppose to be tedious and agonizingly slow to behold. We're more impatient than ever with the pace of tech upgrades these days but on the other hand that tech is also helping to fuel change faster than ever before.

The progressive movement has made great progress in a very short amount of time and as long as we keep pushing and don't become disengaged we will see more and more progressive victories in the future, count on it.
",Antarctica-1,e8k3iuk,SandersForPresident
"Never give up. Convert one Trump supporter to become a Bernie supporter this election cycle. Talk to them personally and explain your point of view. Bernie hasn't given up since like what 1960? So if he can fight at 77, so damn well can we. Never give up",sasiralla,e8jh6k4,SandersForPresident
"I keep a small bust of theodore Roosevelt in my kitchen that I 3d printed, i look at it every day. It's like my guiding light. I see that and I know I'm on the right track and I'm rejuvenated, I remember the quote about his passing.... It's a good thing death came for him in his sleep, if he'd been awake there would have been a fight.",ecto1a2003,e8jghov,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I’ve been really depressed about it. I just don’t get why people don’t want other people to be taken care of and treated with kindness. 

Like shouldn’t the goal of humanity be to become so evolved that we eradicate racism and sexism and achieve world peace? I mean we could be doing so many more cool things like bringing the smartest of the world together to make Star Trek a reality but instead we just want to hurt each other. 

It really makes me wonder if humanity is really worth this. I mean we are the single most destructive species on the planet. The planet and all other species would be better off without us. 

It really makes sad because I use to be such a hopeful person. ",CatsForever2020,e8jh0ca,SandersForPresident
"I've pretty much gave up hope.  Life goes on, but it's never going to be as good as it could be if we had intelligent empathetic people in office.",Suzina,e8jh6p9,SandersForPresident
Make sure foreign money and influences don't shape it the way they want. Especially naturally toxic ones. ,PointlessCarnal2018,e8jl6ln,SandersForPresident
"I agree that we should limit foreign influence like Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Israel. 

But he US oligarchs would still rig the economy. In fact, I'd argue that the US intelligence agencies and oligarchs purposely manipulate the public to focus on external enemies so that they can have an excuse to silence dissenters who call out the domestic rigging of the economic system.

We're already seeing facebook and twitter silence groups who are critical of police, US foreign policy, and government surveillance.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8l4glr,SandersForPresident
"* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251) ",Chartis,e8h4jbc,SandersForPresident
">When Donald Trump talks about a ""booming"" economy what he doesn't mention is that 62% of Americans feel their financial situations has not improved since the 2016 election. Across this country, many people do not have enough money to afford an emergency, they are struggling to put food on the table and working longer hours for lower wages. Our job: fight back against Trump's efforts to benefit the top 1% at the expense of working families.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1981888561866138)  

Linked article: [Most Americans say finances haven't improved since 2016 election](https://www.nbcnews.com/business/consumer/most-americans-say-their-finances-haven-t-improved-election-n923776)",Chartis,e8h4bwv,SandersForPresident
"In my opinion the health of the economy is a difficult lie to sell because it is about how people feel versus of what they can be convinced. 

People are willing to believe all sorts of absurd nonsense without evidence or despite conflicting evidence, but they know whether or not the economy has actually gotten better because they are living it every day and care about it more than anything. Perhaps the only exceptions are the most ardent Trumpies who are just going to lie about everything anyway....",outlawyer11,e8gyxl5,SandersForPresident
Trump cares more about selling weapons to terror states than providing a living wage.,BopTheDrass,e8h1oki,SandersForPresident
I'm sure the economy is doing great for the 1% of people Trump cares about helping. And his base voters still are willing to accept this because they still believe that this great economy will trickle down to them.,totspur1982,e8hp91f,SandersForPresident
It's booming when you are sending bombs to your critics.,Pintofyourbest,e8ggejf,SandersForPresident
And the Dow just plummeted.,Receiverstud,e8h4zve,SandersForPresident
"Bernie's right again. He almost always hits the nail on his head.

Fuck Mr 45 and the elephant he rode on! And while we're at it, fuck the DNC too.",HereComesUncleMick,e8gx32l,SandersForPresident
Bernie will be in San Diego today and Berkeley tomorrow. ,dittidot,e8hppex,SandersForPresident
The BLS stats on unemployment are notorious for bias towards a rosy picture. Shadow Stats still has it near 20%. ,michaelvincentsmith,e8h9xxn,SandersForPresident
"To be fair, it is booming for a select few, just not for the wide majority.",Uwantphillyphillyyah,e8hdtza,SandersForPresident
Just wait...it’ll trickle down soon. ,bandalooper,e8hpmsc,SandersForPresident
It is absolutely booming for the people who make money from that labor. The laborers labor. That's their gain. They have something to do with their day.,hokeyphenokey,e8hst92,SandersForPresident
I'm sure the the billionaires think it's booming... ,Towns-a-Million,e8hegwq,SandersForPresident
He fleecing the Treasury. Of course he thinks the economy is doing great.,BERNthisMuthaDown,e8hf2f9,SandersForPresident
"I never get the argument that the economy is doing great. Sure maybe before 08 that could be applied. But just because stocks are up (they aren't anymore) and unemployment is down doesn't really tell you the whole picture now. Wages are stagnating for the majority of Americans, and the vast majority don't even own stocks beyond what's in their retirement plans. The unemployment figures are bs when it means you're ""employed"" when you're working part time for minimum wage or near enough and no benefits. That's not a sign of a healthy economy when people working need government supplication to live and raise a family. And of corse the unemployment figures don't even include all the people who are on disability.

But oh well my republican dad can say trump is doing well because his stocks have been doing quite well while he's retired in Florida. Ridiculous. ",Fadedcamo,e8hk08f,SandersForPresident
"Well, it is when you are the guy that owns the company paying $8",sir_ender,e8hqstg,SandersForPresident
"The *economy* is booming alright. What's not booming is *personal income*, that's lagging behind by about 20 to 30 years right now, while cost of living isn't. Or, in other words, by keeping wages low and prices high, there's an aweful lot of money being funneled out of the pockets of many into the pockets of ... well I actually have no idea who, but it has to go somewhere, obviously.",TanithRosenbaum,e8hv9b3,SandersForPresident
[https://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/26/first-read-on-us-q3-2018-gross-domestic-product.html](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/26/first-read-on-us-q3-2018-gross-domestic-product.html),smckenzie1118,e8hsxba,SandersForPresident
lol But when people had to work those same number of jobs when Obama was in office. It was called booming then..,baddestmofointhe209,e8h2pr7,SandersForPresident
"Or as Bush Junior would say, to put food on your family",Daniferd,e8hbzt1,SandersForPresident
so why are people choosing to start families if all they can make is $8/hr,brmlb,e8hwkyg,SandersForPresident
"And where was Bernie while Obama was campaigning for reelection on creating all those $8/hour jobs?

It's sad, he'd probably be President right now if he was willing to attack mainstream Democrats as viciously as he does Republicans on the issues where they're equally as bad.",Mr_Bunnies,e8hdsiw,SandersForPresident
Maybe people try and get better paying/real jobs?,you_seem_angry,e8hie5a,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8hky0d,SandersForPresident
"The stock market is so volatile right now, using it as an indicator of a good economy is intellectually dishonest.",Jokka42,e8h40p3,SandersForPresident
Well we did elect Donald Fucking Trump President of the country ffs. People can convince themselves of amazing things. Not too much of a stretch to see the people that Bernie is talking about convincing themselves they are better off. ,surfnaked,e8hwpv7,SandersForPresident
">Trump

and obama, bush jr, clinton, bush sr, reagan, carter, ford, nixon, lbj, kennedy, eisenhower, truman, fdr.

let's not pretend that trump created this problem, he is just dumb enough not to lie about it.",cuam,e8hqzlk,SandersForPresident
"okay that's kind of an invalid argument, presidents before him have been doing the same for a while now, staying as a powerhouse in the world is gonna involve a lot of dirty and just morally wrong deals, its a cruel world my friend ",GaminoBinks,e8h2wk3,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8h2rt3,SandersForPresident
"Yup, all those amazing gains throughout the year are completely gone \*slow clap*

INB4: ""The president has no say in what goes on in the stock market... BUT OBAMA RUINED OUR ECONOMY!!""",Downvotes_All_Dogs,e8hftmz,SandersForPresident
It's always called a good economy when the stock market is doing well. Doesn't matter who is in the White House or how many low paid jobs people have to work to make ends meet. ,SnapesGrayUnderpants,e8h49y9,SandersForPresident
a lot of people aren't.,kazingaAML,e8hxexd,SandersForPresident
"Look there's a finite number of jobs out there and a finite number of people who work.  You can't have everyone who is working a shitty paying job try to find a high paying job, because someone has to do the other job.

Its not a solution to how badly people on the low end are to suggest they try to do better.  Its a percent of the population, we can either say ""you are all fucked on wages"" or ""you guys deserve to make enough money to live decently working 40h a week"".  Do you want America to be great for everyone, or great for some?",Jahkral,e8hnzcq,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8hmihw,SandersForPresident
and the boom in the stock market.  is from the national debt that you get when you cut taxes on the wealthy and they put that money in the stock market.  it's a bubble that they made worst with the timing of their answer to everything.  cut taxes for my donors.,StormalongJuan,e8hh3qh,SandersForPresident
I know,BopTheDrass,e8hrt1c,SandersForPresident
"Wait, your argument for us staying as a powerhouse in the world is that we have to arm foreign countries with our weapons?  


I feel like there's some kind of hashtag like ""dumblogic"" that'd fit this perfectly, but I'm not a cool young kid that knows those kinds of things. ",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8h36w3,SandersForPresident
Whataboutism.,thesunmustdie,e8ht66a,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8h35mv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8h4fd5,SandersForPresident
"Seriously, I look at it as, if we can put a man on the moon, can’t we figure out how to have everyone earn a living wage and figure out single payer healthcare?",pjk922,e8hvkg2,SandersForPresident
"Maybe, but they aren't wrong. The spice must flow. ",Tremulant887,e8hc97m,SandersForPresident
"thats exactly what im saying, and just saying your argument is still miss leading... obama, bush , clinton they all have been arming terror states and been keeping low wages for low skill jobs relatively close to minimum wage. its unfair to say this all began with trump, like another comment said trump is just dumb  enough to not hide it",GaminoBinks,e8hsoo8,SandersForPresident
"You seriously think that of ALL of the factors the USA had going in it's favor, the one that makes the USA a powerhouse is that we sell weapons to people that hate us?   


\#dumblogic ",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8iy7qq,SandersForPresident
"I'll criticize them all (and have), but right now Trump is the leader doing thuggish immoral deeds so I'm criticizing him.",thesunmustdie,e8ht8kt,SandersForPresident
"When did I say Trump was worse, or that the others were excusable?  I'm not a neoliberal, ""Party before Country"" like some of these people talking about how Biden and Michelle Obama are our passed candidates for Potus in 2020.  Look at the title of this subreddit, lol.  


Now, in other areas, Trump IS worse. For example, he's the first president in decades to fan the flames of hatred like this.  He also has made many moves that might sound good if your idea understanding of the economy is as simple as ""Money good,  spending money bad.""  If you understand advanced topics like inflation, stock markets, profit motive, silent collusion, etc.  you pretty quickly realize everything he does is just a handout to his bourgeois buddies.   ",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8inmps,SandersForPresident
There's WAY more to it than that. ,Tremulant887,e8j40wv,SandersForPresident
Way more to it than selling weapons to Saudi Arabia ?   Are you being intentionally vague so you don't have to confront reality ? ,MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8jadgx,SandersForPresident
"In short, the military industrial complex runs deep and isn't something we can change in one election cycle. Not to mention no one is trying to. Democrats and Republicans are pro war in this sense. Every president has had their fingers in it. It's not just weapons and oil, but that seems to be the highlights. 

Im not the best at explaining it. I didn't notice how bad it truly was until Bush Jr. 
",Tremulant887,e8jqfpt,SandersForPresident
This appears to be /Tremulant887 's whole shtick. [low tier troll.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9rlqkh/bernie_i_know_this_will_shock_all_of_you_but/e8i1svn/),MissMeWThatScreenSht,e8lwur3,SandersForPresident
"I think it's coming off as defeatism, or whataboutism.  In other words, it sounds like you're helping excuse Trump's behavior (""This is just how it is"").  Progressives aren't a defeatist group that like to whine (which is very typical of the two major parties), we treat things as if we can unite and change them... because we can.  Otherwise, Democracy has failed completely and we should just adjust to living in a caste oligarchy with a worstening middle class.  


I noticed myself and lots of others can fall into this trap with our comments here.  If you want, try and remember to add,  ""This is something we CAN change, and this is HOW!""  


Typically the ""How"" is deminvade from bottom up.  Go to your caucuses and primaries!  ",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8m6owc,SandersForPresident
"Already voted yesterday. Just getting tired of pointing fingers with no solutions. I regularly listen to Fox news (not entirely by choice) and get my far left dose from Reddit.

None of it adds up. I don't see how anyone sense of it outside of reading headlines and agreeing with no real solution presented. ",Tremulant887,e8m986k,SandersForPresident
"Good way to ironically demonstrate how the GOP elites play their ""base"" as suckers.",LackingLack,e8iqatj,SandersForPresident
"340,134 voters purged, does this guy think he's in fucking Tajikistan?

There needs to be some international intervention to stop this shit.
",BopTheDrass,e8jlkvz,SandersForPresident
"The country WAS treated with respect, before this chucklehead took office and we respected our allies and didn't befriend our enemies. Trump is such a moron I have no problem believing he didn't know about nationalism's negative associations. If he's acting and he's not actually as dumb as he appears it's a damn good act. ",DeusExLibrus,e8j44bf,SandersForPresident
">Next month, I intend to bring my resolution to end U.S. support for the Saudi-led war in Yemen back to the floor. The brutal murder of Mr. Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional.

>I very much hope that Congress will act, that we will finally take seriously our congressional duty, end our support for the carnage in Yemen, and send the message that human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1983162215072106)",Chartis,e8ityyw,SandersForPresident
">We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  

>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  

>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

",Chartis,e8ioecq,SandersForPresident
"No, corporate democrats are gonna start talking like Bernie in a couple weeks probably. Just don’t vote for anyone who takes corporate money anymore. ",klware,e8ipoq4,SandersForPresident
"Not entirely, nor should it entirely. There are many red states in which a neoliberal policy appeals to voters more so than a progressive stance, regardless of how we feel about it. The way things are currently, were playing a numbers game with trying to retake congress in the midterms, and i'd rather a blue dog democrat than any republican get those seats to place an appropriate check on the administration.

Currently as a party, we're not in a position to hold purity tests as the Trump admin is in control of all 3 branches, and i would hope most progressives can recognize this. For the time being, run progressives in the primary, and vote for whatever dem comes out on top, as a conservative will most likely vote much more for the Trump policies than a dem would, even if its a neoliberal dem. We need to unify as a party to regain some control and have some checks put into place. IMO, our highest priority should be reigning in the current admin, and only then should we focus on filling every seat with progressives. We can't afford another ""X progressive or bust"" movement, cause look where that's gotten us.

I sincerely hope that the primary wins of more progressives signals an overall party shift, but I'm much more concerned with getting back to some normalcy in our political system, and protecting what we've fought so hard for, even if what we have isn't perfect by any means.",fuckyeahmicrobes,e8iquzq,SandersForPresident
"Seeing Gillum water down Medicare for all talk and align with Debbie Whatshername Schultz has been just another sign that they can put on progressive colors as well as anyone. When it is time to put up or shut up, I think they are preparing for a whole lot of shut up. ",robotzor,e8iq7tw,SandersForPresident
"I live in Florida. There's no way in hell that I'm going to let the ""Reds"" stay in power.

Even though Desantis seems more moderate than his primary opponent (a bible-thumping zealot to the bone), he has Trump's approval written all over him and he's yet another hardliner on immigration with nationalistic tendencies. Time to counter RW populism with LW populism. I have SOME faith in Gillum, which is more than I can say for 99.99% of the Republican Party.

EDIT: Also, I want to add that Desantis isn't necessarily a ""moderate"" by any means, just an ounce to the left of Putnam who was a rabid RWer across the board.",HereComesUncleMick,e8j4e7b,SandersForPresident
You don't want my friends and neighbors voting.,Mythril_Zombie,e8h5vd6,SandersForPresident
My boyfriend who hasn’t voted before will be voting 🙂,foxphace,e8hksbi,SandersForPresident
"I think it’s important to note that voting should be done upon the issues, not according to a binary system. I feel that this is one of the reasons there is such low turnout in the midterms. Take literally 15 minutes and read the ballot you get sent in the mail or however you receive it, and vote according to the single paragraph descriptions at least. But yes, most importantly, VOTE!",Tr1nity,e8gz6dj,SandersForPresident
I’m so jealous of everyone old enough to vote,VeganAgua,e8h5cqg,SandersForPresident
I think this whole political party thing is what’s killing America and voting isn’t gonna fix anything,usedtoiletbrush,e8h301v,SandersForPresident
"You have plenty of time to get yourself in order. My first vote was for Obama, and then 8 years later I did a 180 politically to progressive liberalism. I can't say I regret the Obama vote, but had I known then what I know now, he wouldn't have pulled a fast one on me.

Educate yourself as best as you can before showing up to the polls the first time ever. Don't get taken on a ride like myself and so many others did :(",robotzor,e8hwr08,SandersForPresident
You are completely wrong.,Opinionated_Squirrel,e8h6w6h,SandersForPresident
">As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As long as the connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his opinions and his passions will have a reciprocal influence on each other; and the former will be objects to which the latter will attach themselves. The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protection of these faculties is the first object of government. From the protection of different and unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests and parties. -- James Madison

http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_century/fed10.asp

Bonus:

>But the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. The regulation of these various and interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation, and involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and ordinary operations of the government.

If anything?  *That's* what is killing America.  I mean, people are going to have competing interests.  But the government is failing to property regulate *between* those competing interests.

It's devolved to factionalism:  ""We're only going to do things that benefit *us;* even if it comes at the expense of *them.*  The common good be damned.""

Government can't be effective when it falls victim to zero-sum thinking like that.  How can it, if it is supposed to represent everyone?
",ting_bu_dong,e8h4sgm,SandersForPresident
Am I though?,usedtoiletbrush,e8hnnbr,SandersForPresident
"> If Johnson had been running all by himself, he would not have been acceptable to anyone. The only thing that made him acceptable to the world was that the shrewd capitalists, the shrewd imperialists, knew that the only way people would run toward the fox would be if you showed them a wolf. So they created a ghastly alternative. And it had the whole world — including people who call themselves Marxists — hoping that Johnson would beat Goldwater.

A government can’t really be effective when it’s a constant competition of lesser evils either, nor can the voters really keep up enthusiasm for that system even if it were functional. Asking people to put faith in a system that has been obviously broken for (at least) decades is a hard sell, and it is so for a reason. 

If the system can’t work, then maybe we need a new system entirely. And odds are you won’t have much luck voting the entire system away. 

I feel like people may as well still vote, but you’re asking people to put all of their eggs in that basket, and many people have a long list of very good reasons to not want that. ",zappadattic,e8haqvm,SandersForPresident
"> ""We're only going to do things that benefit us; **especially** if it comes at the expense of them. The common good be damned.""
   
You misspelled a word there.",Mythril_Zombie,e8h5wyj,SandersForPresident
"""voting isn't going to fix anything""

Low turnout is what got us here.",Opinionated_Squirrel,e8hrjyg,SandersForPresident
"To be clear, when we talk about a *new system,* we are still talking about a representative democracy?  

If not?  I don't support it.  

If so? I don't see how it would be much different. 

Because Madison was talking about his *new system* of representative democracy.   And he might as well have been talking about our old one.

If your system allows for freedom of opinion, then different opinions will be formed.  

People with different opinions form groups.  

And groups oppress other groups, if they can get away with it.

That last part is what people need to be constantly vigilant about. ",ting_bu_dong,e8i0ddf,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, it does seem like that considered a bonus to some of these people.

But, well, that was Madison's whole point of the essay, really.  

>By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to a majority or a minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adversed to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the community.

That is a thing that people *do.*  Groups *will* oppress other groups, if they can get away with it.

wat do?


>It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will be able to adjust these clashing interests, and render them all subservient to the public good. Enlightened statesmen will not always be at the helm. Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made at all without taking into view indirect and remote considerations, which will rarely prevail over the immediate interest which one party may find in disregarding the rights of another or the good of the whole.

>The inference to which we are brought is, that the CAUSES of faction cannot be removed, and that relief is only to be sought in the means of controlling its EFFECTS.

>If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by the republican principle, which enables the majority to defeat its sinister views by regular vote. It may clog the administration, it may convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its violence under the forms of the Constitution. When a majority is included in a faction, the form of popular government, on the other hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest both the public good and the rights of other citizens. To secure the public good and private rights against the danger of such a faction, and at the same time to preserve the spirit and the form of popular government, is then the great object to which our inquiries are directed. Let me add that it is the great desideratum by which this form of government can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it has so long labored, and be recommended to the esteem and adoption of mankind.

>By what means is this object attainable? Evidently by one of two only. Either the existence of the same passion or interest in a majority at the same time must be prevented, or the majority, having such coexistent passion or interest, must be rendered, by their number and local situation, unable to concert and carry into effect schemes of oppression. 

Which basically seems to translate to ""don't let the majority get powerful enough to be able to oppress the minority.""  But, well, *that's really hard to do.*

It basically amounts to ""don't let the majority get fired up and organize on a national scale.""  Which is exactly what the politician's playbook *is* these days!  *Trump goes to Montana.*  Or wherever.

It's not Mitch McConnell, working to bring the pork back to Kentucky.  Caring about local, Kentuckian interests.  It's Mitch McConnell, champion of ""universal conservative values.""

We have 24x7 propaganda news.  We have the Internet.  I don't know that we have the safeguard of keeping local politics *local* anymore.",ting_bu_dong,e8h6luh,SandersForPresident
"I’m talking about big picture stuff, How Compromise is the only way this country works and having it run by two extremist political parties means we’re going to implode soon (civil war). 

It’s about time somebody tells you... your vote doesn’t mean shit and democracy has been dead since the 50’s",usedtoiletbrush,e8ipk9h,SandersForPresident
"And why does representative democracy not extend to economics? We seem largely comfortable as a society with a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie when it comes to the workplace. 

And if you want to change that, how do you expect representatives to accomplish it. 

> Freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.

-MLK",zappadattic,e8ijkx0,SandersForPresident
"First off, I hate the two party system as much as anyone. Secondly, I am able to realize that I have no power to change that and I'm not gonna sit around and bitch like you. I have a few questions:

How many local Democratic party meetings have you been to?
How many primary campaigns have you volunteered for?
How many times have you run for office? Or helped someone?
How involved in local politics are you?
How many ballot measures have you collected signatures for?
How many neighbors have you talked with about politics?
How often do you call your representatives? Both federal and state.
How many political organizations are you a part of?
How often have you donated to candidates across our country that you believe in?

People made the ultimate sacrifice for this democracy and the right to vote, and it has never been perfect but we have made so much progress. Stop being a bitch on Reddit and go actually do something about things like I am.",Opinionated_Squirrel,e8isr6g,SandersForPresident
"I'm not sure how what you are saying follows from what I was saying. 

Anyway, yeah, King was right.  The oppressors and the oppressed obviously have differing interests.

>But the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property.

Class war wasn't invented in the 60s.  Or, by a 19th century German philosopher.  It's as old as the concept of property.

Seeing as revolutions where the rich get eaten by the poor (after copious bloodletting) don't tend to work out very well, but a system where the rich just get to eat the poor isn't great, either, the solution would be to *try to find a way to regulate between the factions.*

Find a middle ground that seems pretty fair to all parties involved. 

""Win-win"" as opposed to zero-sum.

Because a zero-sum representative democracy *does not function.*  It can't, really.

I dunno, people seem to forget the point of liberalism.  It's to keep a society with all different groups, with their varied interests, from killing each other.  It was never meant to be the best for any one group.

In fact, the more it favors any one group (the rich, white people, whatever...), the more it fails as system. ",ting_bu_dong,e8im427,SandersForPresident
"Lol if that’s what you think, go waste your time in helping some corrupt ass hat climb further up the political asshole of America",usedtoiletbrush,e8itqoy,SandersForPresident
"Class is never going to be a win win. Mitigating the damage of the losses does not make a loss into a win. Abolishing class is the only way to remove the issues class creates. 

And while liberalism doesn’t explicitly endorse one group or another, as a system it allows groups to maintain control over other groups. 

That’s also pretty explicitly not what King said. 

And of course class didn’t start with Marx, but Marxist styles of analysis did. Marx’s whole premise was to analyze class relations as they develop from their historic counterparts, so from a Marxist perspective it’s obvious that class preceded the analysis of class. ",zappadattic,e8innpi,SandersForPresident
Will do! I enjoy it. Do you happen to live in Russia btw?,Opinionated_Squirrel,e8iu68p,SandersForPresident
">There are again two methods of removing the causes of faction: the one, by destroying the liberty which is essential to its existence; the other, by giving to every citizen the same opinions, the same passions, and the same interests.

>It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy, that it was worse than the disease. Liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without which it instantly expires. But it could not be less folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political life, because it nourishes faction, than it would be to wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to animal life, because it imparts to fire its destructive agency.

>The second expedient is as impracticable as the first would be unwise. As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed. As long as the connection subsists between his reason and his self-love, his opinions and his passions will have a reciprocal influence on each other; and the former will be objects to which the latter will attach themselves. The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protection of these faculties is the first object of government. From the protection of different and unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests and parties.

It's not advisable to try to abolish groups.  You'd need to either convince everyone to agree to the same (your) point of view, or forcefully prevent them from being able to have a different one. 

And even if you magage to do this?

>The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of man; and we see them everywhere brought into different degrees of activity, according to the different circumstances of civil society. A zeal for different opinions concerning religion, concerning government, and many other points, as well of speculation as of practice; an attachment to different leaders ambitiously contending for pre-eminence and power; or to persons of other descriptions whose fortunes have been interesting to the human passions, have, in turn, divided mankind into parties, inflamed them with mutual animosity, and rendered them much more disposed to vex and oppress each other than to co-operate for their common good. So strong is this propensity of mankind to fall into mutual animosities, that where no substantial occasion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their unfriendly passions and excite their most violent conflicts.

People will just divide themselves based on other reasons. The inner versus outer party, for instance.

Class is a faction, but it isn't the only one. Even if you get rid of it, you aren't getting rid of the reason behind it:  People are tribalistic, and thus prone to forming groups, coalitions, parties, classes, nations, empires... 

And then beating other groups over the head.

So, I mean, I get why you want to make things better for lower classes by destroying the distinction, essentially destroying the upper class.  

It stands to reason that that you support your *chosen group,* as much as it stands to reason that the rich would try to screw you.

I'm saying that the only real solution for a workable democratic, representative government is to tell both sides in the class war to go screw themselves. 

The problem, really, is that the government is picking sides, playing favorites. The rich's side. ",ting_bu_dong,e8ipafy,SandersForPresident
Antarctica ,usedtoiletbrush,e8iu7kj,SandersForPresident
"How is one view not already in place by force? Again, liberalism allows that to occur even if it doesn’t endorse it explicitly. I have the liberty to talk about communism or anarchy all day, but at the end of the day the material conditions I operate under are capitalism. This isn’t really decided by voting or representation, but by the authority of ownership. That ownership is constantly backed by the threat of force. Choosing not to acknowledge it will lead to violent reprisals. 

Do you think the abolition of feudal relations was a net negative? People died, some gruesomely. It was a violent period to replace global feudalism with global capitalism. Were the improvements not worth it? Is ideological pacifism more important than progressive violence? 

The idea of telling both classes to screw themselves is some radical centrist nonsense. Everyone exists with some relationship to production and property. THats a material reality that can’t be not true. Wanting to ignore it means you’re in a privileged enough position to be able to ignore it. That’s not enlightened, it’s patronizing. You’re telling people their material conditions actually just don’t matter. ",zappadattic,e8ipvc5,SandersForPresident
"Damn! If that's the case, you probably have a huge impact in local politics since there is such a low population. Take advantage of that!",Opinionated_Squirrel,e8iu9jy,SandersForPresident
"I'm just rephrasing Madison, really.

Do you agree with the fundamental logic?

     People have opinions, and thus, interests.

     People form groups based on their interests.

     Groups will oppress other groups, if they able to do so.

     A good government will work to prevent groups from oppressing other groups.

The groups are arbitrary, really.

And saying that I'm biased towards one group or another doesn't really change the argument.

If you're saying that rich and poor aren't treated equally, and that they should be?  I agree with you.

If you are saying that that is impossible, so, eat the rich?  I disagree.  It's no different than saying that the rich should eat you. ",ting_bu_dong,e8iqgzo,SandersForPresident
The penguins and I don’t believe in politics you sound like one of the damn leopard seals,usedtoiletbrush,e8iubjv,SandersForPresident
"Pretty radical centrism at the end there. You’re just abandoning nuance for the sake of ideological purity with that line. 

I don’t really agree with the third or fourth assumption in your list either. People will only oppress other groups if it actually serves their interest to do so. The bourgeoisie have a clear motive for the oppression of the workers; it’s profitable. Worker groups don’t really have as clear a motive to oppress other workers. Generally cooperative work is more productive. 

The fourth point contradicts the first two. If we assume the first two points are true, then how will any government possibly accomplish the fourth without themselves becoming representatives of a clear group? And in a capitalist economy where wealth and ownership offer substantial power and authority, why would it not follow that political power would seek to attach itself to that economic power? Liberal capital democracy will inevitably become a democracy of the bourgeoisie, where what choices the masses are allowed to vote for are only those things which don’t threaten the economic hierarchy. 

I’m not saying the rich and poor should be treated equally. I’m saying we shouldn’t even have rich and poor groups, especially as distinct and distant as they are now. It’s not as though the concept of extreme wealth is a necessary one for a society to be built around. You’re sort of assuming your position to be true as part of your argument for your position.  ",zappadattic,e8ir3ac,SandersForPresident
Haha you're actually pretty funny. Hope you have a good weekend. Try not to get so down. There is still hope!,Opinionated_Squirrel,e8iue38,SandersForPresident
"This ""article"" says almost nothing. It offers no actual evidence or even speculation. It just says, ""People like Bernie more."" I agree, but this is basically just clickbait because it offers no new information, or even information at all. Why is this being posted? ",davidcstewart,e8ht7uz,SandersForPresident
He killed it tonight.  I don't think Bernie is stopping anytime soon. ,PM_ME_UR_NECKBEARD,e8j23yn,SandersForPresident
">On the road, Sanders is obsessive about how many people are following his tour via Facebook and Twitter. Of the staff he’s brought along with him, nearly half are dedicated to video and social media. At every stop, they chase after him with a camera. Everything is filmed and livestreamed and tweeted. As soon as Sanders gets in the van, or on the plane, the first question for his staff is always the same: “So, what are the numbers?”


>He doesn’t just want to know that 3,000 people attended his rally in Bloomington. He wants to see how many likes are on the Facebook post about the rally. He wants to know how many people they are reaching — by the hour. He wants to hear which videos are performing well, and about which issues. His aide will usually show him on a laptop, which Sanders reads by holding the machine in the air, screen close to his face. He is very aware that a Social Security event at a public library in Indiana may draw a crowd of 200 people in the room — but that 200,000 people are following along online.



>Aides estimate that Sanders is reaching 5 to 6 million people per day on this tour.

>For the senator, those numbers are not only a measure of enthusiasm. They are “accomplishments,” he says during an interview between stops in Iowa. “So if you’re gonna ask me about some of my proudest accomplishments in the last two years — we have done three town meetings that I’ve gotten between a million and 2 million viewers. The ability to talk about our issues, directly to people, is extraordinary.”



>He is particularly interested in how his reach compares to traditional news outlets. And is equally concerned as any major publisher, it seems, about changes to Facebook’s algorithm to boost the presence of friend-to-friend exchanges in its News Feed.
",gideonvwainwright,e8gu64m,SandersForPresident
"He is a dynamo, but his own words just convinced me that we need to pick the best candidate to beat Trump.

I still think that is Bernie. I think only Bernie could convince me otherwise.",xxoites,e8gwbcg,SandersForPresident
">The tour, and every livestream, tweet, and Facebook post from it, show the Sanders political revolution at a new and uncertain inflection point. The Vermont senator, who is also up for reelection in his home state next month, believes he is winning the debate on ideas, but now his job is to convince people to do something about it. The man who built his 2016 campaign on a message about a rigged, oligarchical, and corrupt system spent the weekend telling voters to stop “moaning and groaning” and vote.

>On the subject of the 2020 election, and whether he decides to run again, the most important question on his mind, as he describes it, is what kind of candidate is best positioned to beat Donald Trump. If the answer isn’t Sanders, aides say, he won’t run. (On Twitter, one notes, Sanders sees Trump as his biggest “competitor.”)

>“Jeff and I were just talking about this the other day. I think when you look at the kind of candidate who can beat Trump, you’re probably looking at the battleground states,” he says, citing a recent poll in Florida. “Probably what you’re looking at in terms of beating Trump is what candidate could do well in those battleground states, and that is the ability to speak to working people — whether they’re black or white or Latino.”

>“As I think about this thing, am I thinking about which candidate is the strongest in order to beat Trump? Yes, of course.” Is it the number one question? “I think it is, yes. And we’ve got some great candidates. I know all of them. And they’re really good. But I think the question that all of us are going to have to sit down and determine is—” Sanders pauses. “Trump is — he is a liar. He’s a tough candidate to take on. So we have to go with the best candidate.”

..............................................

>“Look,” he says. “What we can say without fear of hesitation is there are some people, Democrats and Republicans, whose mommies and daddies told them when they were at the country club that they were born to be president. That was not the case. My parents, who are both deceased now, would not believe that I am a United States senator.”

>**“So no, I don’t look in the mirror and say this was the guy who was destined to become president.”**

>**Some people do, of course.**

>**“Yes,” Sanders says. “Yes, they do.”** 
",gideonvwainwright,e8gtqxa,SandersForPresident
"Sanders is the only politician with even a remote chance of beating Trump. If Biden wins the nomination, Trump will easily win. ",blkdnmt,e8h0muy,SandersForPresident
Biden's not a good campaigner. Never made it far in the primaries. If he ends up winning it would only be because Warren runs against Bernie and splits the progressive vote.,BopTheDrass,e8h1q2m,SandersForPresident
"Not easily win. If Biden wins, I'm sure you will all still help him crush Trump.

But it won't be easy.",Matasa89,e8hhayd,SandersForPresident
"Agreed, but Warren has demonstrated that she is progressive in name only, so I don't think it's going to be a problem with her splitting the vote. At this point she's less electable than HRC; both have no integrity.",blkdnmt,e8h22gb,SandersForPresident
"Empty promises have gone on too long; I would not support Biden. It's time to take a stand, and the enemy isn't Trump, it's the wealthy elite who control both sides of the business party.",blkdnmt,e8l5d2z,SandersForPresident
"Warren we thought we know is no Warren. 

The one we thought we knew would be the first to endorse Bernie in 2016 but that was some alternate reality never happened.

Her true colors were revealed during the Clinton endorsement and how she neglected Bernie during 2016. ",bhantol,e8j1pfh,SandersForPresident
"Don't let perfect be the enemy of good.

Fight for Bernie, but if it doesn't work, get Biden in and hold his feet to the fire.

Just follow Bernie's cue, he knows what's up.",Matasa89,e8l6wc6,SandersForPresident
"Biden isn't even good.

Leverage means being willing to walk away. Until we are ready to do that, nothing will change.",blkdnmt,e8l7zcy,SandersForPresident
">It is insane to be here and feel the momentum in this room. I can't tell you how special this is for me. I'm a young woman and [I'm here because I support Bernie Sanders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=926&v=BgcHk9WpcJo), I'm not here for the *bros*.

>I have seen symbolism in elections, symbolism that so desperately fails the people who so desperately needed the action to make change. I want my first female President to be more than a symbol.

>[Bernie Sanders is offering the action we desperately need.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/fighting-for-womens-rights ) His economic solution will provide for those who suffer from the oppression of a broken system. Including women.

>Bernie has the freedom from the private interests and big corporations to give families the extra childcare, time off for maternity leave, and pay equality. Actions that affect women directly.

>Bernie understands the importance of addressing inequality in a flawed economic system. We are here because we know that Bernie can bring real change. He can create a country that does not incarcerate more than it educates. A country with a demilitarized police force. One where we do not allow young Black men to be murdered without accountability. He gives us hope for equality.

>We haven't had a candidate like Bernie Sanders in a long time and we might not see the likes of him again. This is our moment. This is the time.

>I've been so impressed by the Sanders campaign. [He's remained so dignified in an insane political climate.](https://www.instagram.com/p/BoIDjicBCpU/?taken-by=berniesanders) And in doing so he's reminded us that this election is certainly not about the gender of the candidate.

>This is about a chance for a real change. One that will effect each and every American. This is about our future, a future we can believe in.

-[Emily Ratajkowski](http://probationagency.scdn4.secure.raxcdn.com/mediaLibrary/images/english/76758.jpg), [Feb 15^th '16](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EO5z8BeMRn4)",Chartis,e8hmu9w,SandersForPresident
I've read your post and the comments on Twitter and I've no idea what you're talking about. I suspect you're missing your entire audience here. ,Jacqu3SkardasheV,e8ij0d7,SandersForPresident
Are you talking to me or Ari Rabin-Havt?,gideonvwainwright,e8ijbue,SandersForPresident
"You're the one conveying his obviously nuanced message, so I'd say you. Besides, where would asking him get me, exactly?",Jacqu3SkardasheV,e8ioqvd,SandersForPresident
"I presume you’re trolling but just in case you’re just confused - Ari Rabin-Havt’s message isn’t nuanced, it’s literal. Bernie stopped to speak in solidarity with workers on a picket line today in San Diego. Here are some other references, with pix and videos:

[On the picket line with .@BernieSanders in San Diego. #VetsForLabor #VetsForBernie #Bernie2020 #FeelTheBern](https://twitter.com/vets4bernie/status/1055932559711002624?s=21)

[So great to have @SenSanders join the striking @WestinGaslampSD workers today. Standing up for working people everywhere! Do better @Marriott. #HesStillGotIt #MarriottStrike #OneJobShouldBeEnough](https://twitter.com/ryankarlsgodt/status/1055945964437917696?s=21)

[It was an honor to be on the picket line today with @UNITEHERE30 in San Diego. The fight you are waging and the courage you are showing here is exactly the fight that must be waged in every state in this country. One job should be enough for people to live with dignity.](https://twitter.com/berniesanders/status/1055942581539008514?s=21)

",gideonvwainwright,e8iuf5j,SandersForPresident
"Today he'll be in Las Vegas and Reno, Friday in San Diego and Saturday in Berkeley.  : )",dittidot,e8faf1a,SandersForPresident
"Watching from Australia here and Bernie is someone I want our country to be working with. Only because I want America to have the same things we take for granted.

I always looked up to you guys when I was younger but now I just can’t see myself living there under the conditions you guys face",lordofsealand,e8f7ibh,SandersForPresident
You'll never really hear about this from the media because they don't want to give him a lick of momentum. ,StockmanBaxter,e8f9jdz,SandersForPresident
Let's go Bernie 2020 !!!,TomBurcher,e8f43x6,SandersForPresident
If he came to Idaho i'd be soo happy.,JesseBrown447,e8fgix4,SandersForPresident
Now we just need all those people to make it to the voting booths. ,ChLoRo8523,e8ffrtj,SandersForPresident
"Shit even as a Canadian I wan't to see him.

It's unfathomable how much the US, no the whole world would be better if he was/get's to be President.

People think he's just some lone Democrat but he's so much more. ",Cragnous,e8fb1xy,SandersForPresident
Go Bernie! But what's with passive voice in the title?,GentleRhino,e8ffw7a,SandersForPresident
"I was at one of these, even see myself in one of the pics. I love how he's amping up energy for all these other candidates. Bernie has been so instrumental in getting the youth out to vote and reshape the Democratic platform into a more progressive one. ",lennybird,e8fqd8h,SandersForPresident
"Step 1 is to hit the activism *[HARD](https://i.redd.it/x052rp2r2tt11.png)* for the next 2 weeks:  

* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  

---

Bernie is releasing [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>If I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8f9b8l,SandersForPresident
Think of how different things would be if the Democrats had not screwed us all over by rigging for Hillary....  :-(,Merit_based_only,e8fu3yw,SandersForPresident
"Just got back from his rally. He’s definitely in pre campaign mode. He’s coming in early for the midterms while building alliances this time. His tour is bringing in a lot of people for the midterms and is building a strong base for his campaign. He definitely looks like he’s best positioned to win the primaries as of now. I know it’s early, but based off his popularity and how well he did last round with a dead start. He can’t be stopped. ",duffmanhb,e8h43gi,SandersForPresident
"Gonna take a lot of work for the dems to fuck this up and run a shit candidate to split us. I wonder who.... Harris?
",flickerkuu,e8fp7lr,SandersForPresident
"Got to see him in Michigan when he was passing through Ann Arbor. It was great to hear him again, gave me a little hope.",kcins,e8fv147,SandersForPresident
He better fucking run again.,falcoperegrinus82,e8gu4zw,SandersForPresident
Soooo sorry to have missed him in Tucson.,RealStumbleweed,e8gyyjo,SandersForPresident
Maybe the DNC won't fuck him over this time if he runs in 2020 once they finally get the god damn sand out of their eyes and realize he is the man who can win.,jasenlee,e8h0m8v,SandersForPresident
It is NOT right to follow the name Bernie's with words 'has been',unspammenow,e8h3w10,SandersForPresident
"Who you callin’ a *has been*?! 

/s",bandalooper,e8flq1x,SandersForPresident
See that Democratic leadership....look and learn.,thisMFER,e8fhims,SandersForPresident
Yeah well Trump got all those Cleveland Cavs fans to go all the way to Texas to attend a rally. ,bmzink,e8g93xp,SandersForPresident
Anyone got deets on the SD thing?,HereWeGoAgainTJ,e8gxwjx,SandersForPresident
I know e has a lot of traction but why is one picture of ~50 people in what seems to be a classroom?,SaucyLettuce,e8fxxub,SandersForPresident
There were crowds in 2016 but unless they vote who cares? ,OninWar_,e8faczy,SandersForPresident
Bernie voted no on sanctions against Russia. More than once.,choochy,e8fef55,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8g6787,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8g762x,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8gkrjb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8h2r24,SandersForPresident
"It’s almost a problem, if you guys think he’s a viable candidate almost completely based off age you’re delusional.",pinkpeach11197,e8gnpz4,SandersForPresident
You guys actually think Bernie has a chance? Lol...Biden is a much stronger candidate and Bernie has no chance of beating him.,v-shizzle,e8fqgl4,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8gbrf9,SandersForPresident
LOL these extremely wide angle shots. ,Endlessmanager,e8fl8k8,SandersForPresident
"Sunday he's doing [an organizing call.](https://act.moveon.org/survey/resistandwincountdown/)  

Monday he's [participating in a debate.](https://www.action-circles.com/candidate-forums/)  

Stay up-to-date with our sidebar.



",Chartis,e8fccie,SandersForPresident
I'm seeing I'm tomorrow in sd I'm so excited ,erik_hagstrom,e8h3iif,SandersForPresident
"Fuckin' oath, mate.
Come on, Bernie 2020!

EDIT: Whoever downvoted me, likely from me saying ""Fuckin oath"", you know that's Aussie slang for ""I agree strongly"", right? A simple Google search doesn't hurt",Amenta101,e8fadtc,SandersForPresident
Very true. ,EventuallyScratch54,e8fg3d9,SandersForPresident
"its not so bad. everything is amplified by the news. 

like how conservatives talk about immigrants raping and killing. i live in the heart of LA (immigrant central), and i don't see any of that. 

healthcare is probably the biggest political issue i and any other american really has to deal with.",starking12,e8frq2r,SandersForPresident
Cheers,thedeadwalking420,e8g82xb,SandersForPresident
"Hence why half of the population have moved on from Old Media (most MSM outlets) to New Media (TYT, Secular Talk, Jimmy Dore, Humanist Report, etc) to get their news, report breakdowns and facts.",Amenta101,e8fb9oi,SandersForPresident
CNN aired his whole schedule of where he’d be rallying. ,dangusdingleman,e8fbuxl,SandersForPresident
">I do wake up believing is that this country is facing more serious crises than we have faced since the Great Depression. And if you include the planetary crisis of global warming, the situation today may even be worse. Given that reality, what distresses me enormously is that there is very little discussion about these major crises, and even less discussion about ideas that can resolve these issues.  

>And this is not just a crisis within the political establishment -- it’s certainly a crisis within the media establishment, because media seems to be far more concerned about looking at politics as a game, or looking at personality and celebrity life, rather than kind of analyzing the problems that we face. 

>Big money interests are putting huge amounts of money into the political process through Citizens United. And these are issues that have got to be addressed, or else in my view the United States will move very rapidly toward an oligarchic form of society when our economic and political life is controlled by a handful of billionaires.  

>There is virtually no discussion about that, virtually none. I don’t know how we can be a serious nation when this issue is not front and center, and there are not real ideas out there on how we address it. Somebody has got to be speaking strongly to defend our middle class...  

>I think there is a great deal to be learned from the successes of some of the Scandinavian countries. There are models out there that we can look to as we try to figure out how we move America away from the very, very deep economic problems we currently have.
  
-Bernie, [Nov 27^th '13](https://www.salon.com/2013/11/27/bernie_sanders_why_i_might_run_in_2016/)",Chartis,e8fr8sq,SandersForPresident
[They tried to bury us.](https://i.redd.it/xb7wgyti7cu11.jpg),Chartis,e8fbtvm,SandersForPresident
Same. ,englalex,e8gh3vw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8fpgm7,SandersForPresident
">Think of how different things would be if the Democrats had not screwed us all over by rigging for Hillary....  :-(



Has anything changed within the DNC to suggest this won't happen again?",MissMeWThatScreenSht,e8gevsx,SandersForPresident
"Harris, Booker, Buttigieg, Warren",AwfulChief78,e8gkygr,SandersForPresident
They will run everything they got - it's the only way they can split the vote enough to force a second ballot at the convention so the superdelegates can do their thing.,harrygibus,e8gtqxl,SandersForPresident
At one of the rallies he literally walked them to the polls.,jmblock2,e8ffzk0,SandersForPresident
"Considering that he can still gain massive crowds with momentum and that we're only nearly a year away before the election starts, I'd say thats a pretty big deal",Amenta101,e8fbe9w,SandersForPresident
"To be fair, the rules for voting in the primaries and caucuses were bound to cause reduced turnout

&#x200B;

A lot of Bernie's support was from Indie voters, but the rules for many primaries restricted it to only those who were registered dems",AvinashTyagi1,e8fi27c,SandersForPresident
"Bernie earned more votes than Trump and Hillary combined. He's responsible for invigorating the youth and causing record voter-registration for this midterms among youth demographics, too.

The youth don't vote in part because they're disenfranchised. Observe how the young morphs into the older and that the millennials will soon become the single largest voting bloc of any group. Represent them properly as Bernie does and watch them vote.",lennybird,e8fqg99,SandersForPresident
Sanctions for what?,jansre16,e8g3xen,SandersForPresident
You're an ignorant shit head. Do some research you small minded trumpet. Toot toot. ,dats_cool,e8ggtmv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8h1sm4,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8h1th2,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8gl0cn,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8h4nsx,SandersForPresident
"Bernie is [stronger than Biden against Trump.](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png)  

[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>His leadership on issues such as a $15 minimum wage, free public higher education and labor rights makes him the clearest, most consistent and, yes, the most popular voice on the political Left...   

>He’s a battletested, nonpartisan ideologue with a record as long as it is reflective of political integrity. From gay equality to the Iraq War, Sanders’ ability to get it right so often isn’t just luck—it’s indicative of his commitment to principles over party, politics or donors.  

But let's get to work and hash this out after the midterms. After all, as Bernie puts it, it's [our job now.](https://ourrevolution.com/action/)  ",Chartis,e8fqxdv,SandersForPresident
I hope anyone who would think twice if the choices are between Biden and Bernie. I like Bernie because he has integrity and I trust that he would not be influenced by the big money once he is in office. I do not trust Biden as Obama folded himself once he became the president. Our country need someone who really cares about people and who has the courage to fight against the big money. ,GraceWan1973,e8fua7j,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8h1sd8,SandersForPresident
they are nevertheless serious crowds for a senator rallying for other candidates in a mid term election. Something is definitely going on here.  ,silvertui,e8fnxqj,SandersForPresident
Thank you!,D3M4NNU,e8g1nsf,SandersForPresident
"If it ain’t got “shrimp” “barbie” “dingo” or “cunt” in it, then I question the validity of it being an actual Australian saying.",groovy_giraffe,e8ffuai,SandersForPresident
Good fucking yard!,twistedlimb,e8fegxk,SandersForPresident
What are your favorite sources of new media? Besides the ones you’ve already listed... :),vunderbra,e8fcsso,SandersForPresident
Honestly shocked,snowcase,e8fe44w,SandersForPresident
"Was it proportional? What was the tone? These are questions that must be answered before we can claim fair coverage. I guess it all depends on your metric. If you're going by enthusiasm or crowd attendance you get one answer. If you go by what are my sponsors paying me not to cover, you get something else.",DrewskyAndHisBrewsky,e8ffii6,SandersForPresident
Too bad they didn’t do that two or three years ago…,RealStumbleweed,e8gz148,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8fqr9r,SandersForPresident
"Progressives have made in roads within the DNC and at the local party level, which will help contain some of the issues we saw in 2016, where local party leaders ran stuff through without any opposition, well there will be opposition this time around.  

Plus I don’t believe they can create any outcome they want.   They can twist the rules at the caucus to get a few extra delegate votes (which might make a big difference in a close race), but when the result is obvious, they can’t make up for it.  They have their districts where they have more leverage, and others that they can’t do anything shady in.  We’ve reduced their ability to be shady in some places, and most importantly, this time people know Bernie.  

He was an unknown in the early stages of those primaries, and HRCs Southern Fire Wall worked as planned, and she carried that original lead throughout, which really hindered Bernie's campaign.  

Anyway, it’s a whole new ball game this time around, and they will try to stop him, but I am not really that worried about it.  By the time he gets the nomination, the DNC will be falling all over themselves to show how much they are feeling the bern.  ",jonnyredshorts,e8gm1f9,SandersForPresident
They cut back some superdelegates.,almondbutter,e8gvy5v,SandersForPresident
"Hillary had enough money to literally buy control of the DNC. She bailed out their debts and they gave her campaign all control. I don't think people like Harris, Booker and Gillibrand have that kind of money, and there will be a ton of vote splitting between the NeverBernie types to the point where I doubt any of them will be able to win. The biggest challenge is Biden I think, he will have a ton of money, but his popularity numbers are artificially inflated. More to do with personality than any policy substance. Bernie would also be able to beat him. This is why Warren needs to stay out of the race so that Bernie's vote isn't split.",BopTheDrass,e8h1ixn,SandersForPresident
"No.  Not a thing.

Which is why I won't vote Dem anymore.  Green, Lib, GOP... pretty much anything other than Dem. They lost me forever.",Merit_based_only,e8gezm9,SandersForPresident
"If that’s the best they can do, this thing will be all but over by Super Tuesday. ",jonnyredshorts,e8gm6cg,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8fi09z,SandersForPresident
"It doesn’t matter unless they vote, and right now I have extreme doubts Bernie will do better this time. ",OninWar_,e8ffhc4,SandersForPresident
"If that we’re true Bernie would have won primaries, period. Maybe it will take trump winning again for millenials to skip passed the excuses and *vote*. Note I don’t like trump but right now he’s in s good position to win again and incumbents tend to win a second term ",OninWar_,e8fsrye,SandersForPresident
I was being sarcastic. 😂,haveyoufoundif,e8ggvbn,SandersForPresident
Name one successful socialist country.,Endlessmanager,e8foyen,SandersForPresident
"Which is always funny because no Australian calls prawns shrimp 

They’re prawns. ",4hedge2lyfe0,e8fmess,SandersForPresident
A dingo ate your barbie.,ting_bu_dong,e8giah1,SandersForPresident
"""Shrimp on the barbie,"" I think that [scene from Dumb and Dumber](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqVzRD_nWLQ&t=0m21s)  led us to the conclusion that those words indicated as such.  ",almondbutter,e8gvl46,SandersForPresident
"Organizations:  

* [The Sanders Institute](https://www.sandersinstitute.com)  
* [Our Revolution](https://ourrevolution.com)  
* [The Nation](https://www.thenation.com)  
* [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/us-politics)  
* [Act.tv](https://act.tv)   
* [Common Dreams](https://www.commondreams.org)  
* [Democracy Now!](https://www.democracynow.org)  
* [The Young Turks](https://www.youtube.com/user/TheYoungTurks/videos)  
* [TYT Politics](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuMo0RRtnNDuMB8DV5stEag/videos)  
* [Free Speech TV](https://freespeech.org)  
* [Now This](https://nowthisnews.com)  
* [The Real News Network](https://therealnews.com)  
* [People For Bernie](http://www.peopleforbernie.com)
* [The Rational National](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCo9oQdIk1MfcnzypG3UnURA/videos)  

---  

Bernie's Social Media:  

* [Official Press Office](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom)  
* [Campaign Twitter](https://twitter.com/berniesanders)  
* [Senate Twitter](https://twitter.com/SenSanders)
* [Campaign Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders)  
* [Senate Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders)
* [Campaign Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCH1dpzjCEiGAt8CXkryhkZg/videos)  
* [Senate Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/user/SenatorSanders/videos)  
* [Campaign Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/berniesanders/?hl=en)  

---  

Individuals:  

* [Dr. Jane Sanders](https://twitter.com/janeosanders)  
* [Warren Gunnels](https://twitter.com/gunnelswarren?lang=en) Bernie's Policy
* [Josh Miller-Lewis](https://twitter.com/jmillerlewis?lang=en) Bernie's Press
* [Matt Duss](https://twitter.com/mattduss) Bernie's Foreign Policy
* [Ari Rabin-Havt](https://twitter.com/AriRabinHavt) Bernie's Deputy Chief of Staff  
* [Katie Thomas](https://twitter.com/KatieRose2468) Bernie's Climate Policy   
* [Bob Kogan](https://twitter.com/BBKogan) Bernie's Economics
* [Stephanie Kelton](https://twitter.com/StephanieKelton) Sanders Institute Economics
* [James Zogby](https://twitter.com/jjz1600) Sanders Institute Foreign Policy  
* [Shaun King](https://twitter.com/shaunking) Sanders Institute Social Justice  
* [Bill McKibben](https://twitter.com/BillMcKibben) Sanders Institute Climate Policy  
* [Robert Reich](https://twitter.com/RBReich) Sanders Institute Democracy  
* [Other Sanders Institute Fellows](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/fellows)
* [Jeff Weaver](https://www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100009318073233) Bernie's Campaign
* [Emma Vigeland](https://twitter.com/EmmaVigeland)  

edit: Bog to Bob",Chartis,e8g91c4,SandersForPresident
David Pakman and Secular Talk with Kyle Kulinski are my go tos.,BawsDaddy,e8fek6n,SandersForPresident
"My favorites have been FriendlyJordies (does a mix of comedy and politics in his vids, mostly relating to Australian issues) and recently some of RationalityRules, but recently liked some David Pakman and some Progressive Voice and will consider checking them out some more.",Amenta101,e8fd3sd,SandersForPresident
Ryan Grim at the Intercept is great.,destijl-atmospheres,e8gwn5c,SandersForPresident
"Probably more liberal than progressive, but definitely balancing a bit of both worlds: Pod Save America. So good.",Skrambles,e8goang,SandersForPresident
Real News Network out of Baltimore,harrygibus,e8gsy8t,SandersForPresident
The Majority Report with Sam Seder,Decay153,e8fylu7,SandersForPresident
Why? He’s in the news fairly often. ,dangusdingleman,e8fw12j,SandersForPresident
"https://www.denverpost.com/2018/10/24/bernie-sanders-comes-to-colorado/amp/

https://amp.coloradoan.com/amp/1758242002

http://amp.thedenverchannel.com/3008548199/bernie-sanders-stumps-for-democrat-jared-polis-in-colorado.html

https://kdvr.com/2018/10/24/bernie-sanders-to-hold-get-out-the-vote-rallies-in-boulder-fort-collins-on-wednesday/amp/

Do you need anymore? These were just for the stops in Colorado. ",dangusdingleman,e8fvygv,SandersForPresident
Proportional to what? ,dangusdingleman,e8fvpmu,SandersForPresident
"Not voting against Trump for the most likely opponent to beat him feels like voting from a place of privilege and completely ignores all values I would assume a Bernie supporter would have (*especially* voting GOP). I love Bernie, but you’re letting the perfect be the enemy of the good. I’m assuming your rights aren’t at stake if this is your viewpoint.",ExileOnBroadStreet,e8gnetn,SandersForPresident
I was talking about last week he was walking people to the polls. I don't know why you need the hyperbole. Why would it take more than a miracle to save him this time? Nobody has even announced yet. Go take a walk and reflect on your absurd comment.,jmblock2,e8fkyw2,SandersForPresident
"I think he will do a lot better

&#x200B;

In 2016 he was basically the lone opponent to HRC, basically he was facing the entire Dem establishment on his own

&#x200B;

2020 however will be a much wider field, I think even bigger than the 2008 field that the Dems had

&#x200B;

And thanks to Warren's boneheaded DNA rollout, her campaign is pretty much DOA, which means a good chance that Bernie gets the vast majority of the progressive wing.

&#x200B;

Basically with the establishment fractured between people like Booker, Harris, Biden and others, while the progressive wing rallies around Bernie, gives Bernie a very good chance at breaking out early with decisive wins in Iowa, NH, and Nevada and building up a lot of momentum.",AvinashTyagi1,e8fij2l,SandersForPresident
"It is true, but unlike Obama, Bernie merely had the youth. He didn't have adequate media representation, nor the backing of the Democratic party. Obama had all three. But perhaps this time around, both media and the party learned their lesson. 

Trump an anomaly in itself. Short of major Russian interference, he will not win. Unlike most incumbents, he's not having positive approval ratings (not ONCE, mind you) in his presidency. ",lennybird,e8fv5qr,SandersForPresident
"yeah okay, says the frequent poster on /r/t_d. your political ideology sucks and you should feel bad.",dats_cool,e8ghk48,SandersForPresident
Democratic Socialism != Socialism. Why are you even here.,Sir_Hapstance,e8fq3bp,SandersForPresident
"Oh ok Wise Professor Guy, please explain the difference between social democracy and socialism.",OceanPowers,e8fsu5e,SandersForPresident
"Bernie often talks about Northern Europe country. I think it shall depends on your goal. The truth is that complete socialism or complete capitalism would not work as a country. Socialism kills renovation and motivation, capitalism would not care about infrastructure, quality of air, water, education, basic research, health care, all those things that need big pooled money to benefit large crowd of people. We need mixed economy. As of now, US is more like socialism for the big money, and capitalism for the small people. So when bank failed, we bailed them out and lots of advantageous tax cuts and benefits to the big company; on the other hand, the middle class people are really screezed, no job security, no affordable health care. (if you are sick, you get bankruptcy). no cheap education, not enough money to live on when you retire.  

&#x200B;

I do not really believe in welfare system, because I see too many frauds. This is something I differ from Bernie. But then I would like to see guaranteed job, health care and education and secured retirement, and good infrastructure  for every one.  It is hard to cheat once it is universal. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",GraceWan1973,e8fuw66,SandersForPresident
TIL,captwafflepants,e8gh1dj,SandersForPresident
"Okay, can we have some real talk about the Progressive Voice? The dude generally makes decent content, but his deadpan stare and clickbaitish titles turn me off. 

Like, I'd like to like his channel, but fuck me it gets annoying.",StuStutterKing,e8firtk,SandersForPresident
"I will check these out, thanks!",jonnyredshorts,e8glf53,SandersForPresident
I watch CNN almost all day sometimes (it's on at my office) and rarely do I ever see or hear him mentioned.,snowcase,e8fxyql,SandersForPresident
None of those are CNN. Of course the local paper and local websites will mention Bernie Sanders is coming.,yoloswag420noscope69,e8gjtwq,SandersForPresident
"In truth, he’s probably never been a blue voter. Just spreading dissent and misinformation.",JoeDice,e8gt2zl,SandersForPresident
"Yes, I am privileged but that's because I worked my ass off to get there.  To that end, I am not going to feel a shred of guilt about the money I make or the lifestyle I enjoy.  With that in mind, I hope you'll appreciate why I find the 'you're just privileged' dismissal so laughable.

Now, to answer your other issue, I am not letting perfect be the enemy of good.  I am refusing to vote for a party which specifically and maliciously prevented Bernie from running against Trump because they wanted to coronate their queen. The corruption was evident from the start and they lost because of it.  It's the DNCs fault that we have Trump.  Why in the world would I support an organization who is directly responsible for this?

Finally, the accusation you are insinuating, but don't have the stones to outright say is racist and/ or sexist. You are assuming that I am a straight white male and therefore don't have any skin in the game.  You are exactly who shouldn't be a part of any liberal movement as you clearly harbor discriminatory feelings toward members of our society based on their race, sex and gender.  Please remove yourself from this sub and find a hate group which best meets your needs.",Merit_based_only,e8i161s,SandersForPresident
"Odds are good he's gas-lighting, trying to sow doubt and cripple enthusiasm. ",lennybird,e8fqq4z,SandersForPresident
Ok. Thanks. ,haveyoufoundif,e8ghp5q,SandersForPresident
"Former Bernout. Democratic socialism is just socialism with Democratic in front. Literally no difference. Look at our unemployment rate and gdp. We don't need socialism.  The American dream means you can become rich. That dies when you're forced to give away a majority of the money you've worked so hard to make. It also stifles job creation. 

Bernie is on video saying people lining up for food in Venezuela is ""a good thing"". That is what made me lose my support for him.",Endlessmanager,e8fu7ns,SandersForPresident
"You could tax the 1% 100% of their income and it wouldn't pay for healthcare and free tuition. It's not feasible. I'm not going to let Bernie take away 90% of my income. He's going after everyones money, not just the rich. I can afford health insurance because I've saved my money wisely (even though I make below 20k). I shouldn't have to pay for everyone else's free shit. ",Endlessmanager,e8g8y35,SandersForPresident
"You're certainly not wrong about the clickbaity titles that he does.
Despite all that tho, he does make some fairly decent content.",Amenta101,e8fj92o,SandersForPresident
"Seriously?

https://www.cnn.com/search/?q=Bernie%20Sanders&size=10&type=video",dangusdingleman,e8g6uc3,SandersForPresident
"Translation: I care more about saving a small amount of money more than I care about people’s rights and quality of life.

Edit: looking at your comment history you appear to be a racist who is not actually liberal",ExileOnBroadStreet,e8i1i8r,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8fqw0d,SandersForPresident
That’s taking his words out of context. What he said at that time was that poor people having access to food is better than not having any food at all. ,ronimal,e8g3yb3,SandersForPresident
"sorry, no. You state social democracy is socialism. this is simply factually inaccurate. ",OceanPowers,e8g626s,SandersForPresident
"You’re been severely misinformed. I’d call it laughable to suggest Bernie is after 90% of everybody’s money, but the falsehoods being spread are actually too terrifying for me to find funny.

This 90% thing... does that have anything to do with his statements about taxing the very rich at a 90% rate by chance? Because that means 90% of their income would be treated at a certain rate, not taking 90% of their income. Furthermore it does not seem he is even in support of that. I’d suggest reading this article [from Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/peterjreilly/2015/12/18/bernie-sanders-and-the-90-income-tax-rate-that-he-does-not-call-for/#9a383469dca8). If there is more recent evidence that points to the contrary I would be happy to give it a read.",Sir_Hapstance,e8g9ort,SandersForPresident
I said watch. Not visit their website. Dumbass.,snowcase,e8g72xy,SandersForPresident
"LOL!  ""Quick- I'm being called out.  Come up with a distraction!!!""

Yes, I completely troll hard.  Especially on Cringe Anarchy.  Does that in anyway forgive your biases?

Your translation illustrates how uninformed you are.  IF I didn't care about people's rights and quality of life, why did I vote for Bernie in the first place?  Why am I so very angry at the DNC for propping up their corpse queen and denying the US a Bernie presidency?  Get off your high horse and examine why you have such a hatred toward successful white men.",Merit_based_only,e8i2yex,SandersForPresident
"I take no issue with realism, but I have a problem with defeatism that hinders a constructive mindset. The United States *is* ready to move left, we just have to bring the message to the people, and Bernie has made significant progress since 2016 where he was a no-name, but he is now a household name. His policies are now being adopted widely by mainstream Democrats rather than being this fringe idea nobody wanted to touch. The reason Obama won was because he carried the grassroots energy of the youth. Not only did he get a spike in youth votes (nothing major, but it was something), he had them out on the streets, filling stadiums, canvassing, phone-banking, and broadly doing the groundwork of the movement. The youth is by far the most influential voting bloc, and they're the ones who will be fighting on the message-boards and social media against the trolls. They're the best equipped given their understanding of technology and seeing through the nonsense. Representing the other side online will help mitigate the damage that was rampant by such trolls with Hillary. 

I'm not sure he'll run for President himself, but the progressive movement is stronger than it's ever been. We've got serious momentum, here. ",lennybird,e8fv1tp,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8gu03v,SandersForPresident
I pulled 90% out of my ass. He has stated that taxes will go up though. I'm not for that in any way. Just notice how he doesn't speak about the tax increases for low-income and middle-income Americans. Won't give a percentage because he knows he would lose most of his support if people knew.,Endlessmanager,e8gb54j,SandersForPresident
Those are video clips of when he’s been on CNN...,dangusdingleman,e8g93w5,SandersForPresident
"Lol I am a successful white man foh. If you’re willing to vote for the GOP because the Democrats fucked over Bernie (who I would have voted for btw), I think it’s fair to question how much you truly care about people’s rights.",ExileOnBroadStreet,e8i3z9r,SandersForPresident
"Sanders *has* directly addressed how his policies would affect income for lower and middle class America, though. You can see a full chart [right here](https://taxfoundation.org/details-and-analysis-senator-bernie-sanders-s-tax-plan/) that lays out Bernie's proposed tax plan and how it affects all income levels. Under Sanders' plan, your rate would have been 17.2%.

Currently, the tax rate for individuals in your position is 15%. You can see that [here](https://www.bankrate.com/finance/taxes/tax-brackets.aspx). So yes, your taxes would have gone up 2%. I'm not going to dismiss that—it is indeed an increase. But.

As someone who makes under 20K, you would have absolutely been eligible and benefited from covered health insurance. All the money you would have had to spend on it from your savings would have stayed in your bank account.

[This article](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2016/03/14/can-bernie-sanders-turn-the-united-states-into-denmark-an-investigation/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.b4a4a1963810) has some details but I've excerpted the important one below.

""Certainly the most aggressive aspect of Bernienomics is the senator’s plan to collect an additional $1.6 trillion a year in taxes — the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP. Although all households would pay higher taxes, 40 percent of the extra taxes would come from households in the top 1 percent — those with annual incomes above $500,000, according to a Tax Policy Center analysis. Those households would see their overall federal tax bite rise from 34 percent to 55 percent.

Sanders argues that it is misleading to look at the tax increase he proposes without also considering the money households would not have to spend on health insurance premiums and co-payments as a result of his plan. A study by the liberal-leaning Citizens for Tax Justice found that 95 percent of American households — those with incomes below $225,000 — would have more money to spend on everything other than taxes and health care.""",Sir_Hapstance,e8gclrb,SandersForPresident
Thanks for listing all of them ever? Did you even read what I said in the first place?,snowcase,e8gaw2r,SandersForPresident
"Lol- what kind of mental gymnastics do you have to perform for you to question my privilege if what you say is true?  This sounds like you were attempting to gatekeep through bullshit identity politics and got called out on it.  You are a joke.

Sigh.... and my point is that I will vote for anyone who is not the DNC. If the GOP has a good candidate, I will vote for them.  If you aren't capable of making decisions due to blind tribalism, that's on you, not me.  Pro-tip:  There is no virtue to be had in loyalty to the DNC when they have fucked you over.  Try thinking for yourself.",Merit_based_only,e8ib5i0,SandersForPresident
"I would lose money. My healthcare is $9/month, $81/year. Bernie would be taking $400 extra off my measly pay. I also don't think people making more than 500k/year should see such an increase an tax. That's straight up theft. What would be the incentive to work hard to achieve that type of salary only to have more than half taken away? Makes no sense.",Endlessmanager,e8gj4s0,SandersForPresident
"Dan is being disingenuous, unless he just legitimately doesn't understand what this conversation is about.",yoloswag420noscope69,e8gjyzz,SandersForPresident
Yup ,dangusdingleman,e8gboxa,SandersForPresident
"None. I am fully aware of my privilege.

If the DNC puts forth a good candidate and you don’t vote for them out of spite, which increases the likelihood that Trump is re-elected, you need to check your privilege.

I have no loyalty to the DNC. I have no loyalty to any party or person. I do not identify as any party, My concern is Trump and the danger to America that is the current GOP.

I’m done talking to you, you act like a petulant child.",ExileOnBroadStreet,e8ibi40,SandersForPresident
"Well... one incentive to still work hard is that you still make more money. If you make $1,000,000 before taxes, you're still taking home a boatload more cash than you are at $500,000 before taxes.

If you think high taxes for the rich is straight-up theft—and yet still supported Bernie Sanders at one point(?)— then I'm not sure there's much of anything I can say to change your mind. However this quote from Elizabeth Warren sums it up in a way I can't put better, and will always stick with me:

>“I hear all this, you know, ‘Well, this is class warfare,  this is whatever.' No. There is nobody in this country who  got rich on his own. Nobody.  
You built a factory out there? Good for you. But I want to be clear:  you moved your goods to market on the roads the rest of us paid for;  you hired workers the rest of us paid to educate; you were safe in your  factory because of police forces and fire forces that the rest of us  paid for. You didn’t have to worry that marauding bands would come and  seize everything at your factory, and hire someone to protect against  this, because of the work the rest of us did.  
Now look, you built a factory and it turned into something terrific,  or a great idea? God bless. Keep a big hunk of it. But part of the  underlying social contract is you take a hunk of that and pay forward  for the next kid who comes along.”

P.S. - Do you happen to make $15 per hour or more, by the way? Forgive me if I'm wrong, but based off your annual income it suggests to me that you do not. Increasing the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour is a core part of Sanders' platform and again, offsets the burden of taxes on the impoverished.",Sir_Hapstance,e8h3l3y,SandersForPresident
"I'll take your points in order:

1)  Commendable.  But just because you are so 'elightened' doesn't give you any right or responsibility to disregard the points of others based on your interpretation of your privilege.  For those of us who actually worked to get where they are, the idea of privilege as a means to gatekeep is insulting, exclusionary and emblematic of the out of touch nature of the typical sewer dwelling neo-liberal.

2) The DNC doesn't put forth good candidates anymore.  They haven't in a while.  These days we have virtue-signalers (Harris), hypocrites (Booker) and identity politicians (Warren).  The only hope the party had was Bernie... and we see how well they treated him.  An argument can be made for Merekely and Insley, but I doubt much will happen there.  Those two are far too good to be taken seriously by the establishment DNC.  

Subpoint:  voting for my interests does not in any way require me to 'check my privilege'.  Retire this pathetic trope, would you?

3) You are a thoughtless loyalist and tribalist.  Your fury that a Bernie supporter could ever vote GOP is illustrative of this.  Your derision toward someone who doesn't believe exactly as you do further defines your lackluster, benal, and craven attempts to secure your own identity as a leftist.  What's funny to me is that you fail to realize that with every purity test you apply to others, you secure a win for the right. Keep excluding people who could be an ally and you'll do exactly what the DNC did... lose support.

4) You were done talking to me quote a while ago, actually.  A talk implies that information is exchanged.  All you've been doing is grandstanding on a morality soapbox built out of self-importance and delusion.  Perhaps basking in the glory of acknowledging your privilege precludes you from understanding the limitations of your hardcore stance.... Or perhaps you are just too fucking stupid to see that people like you are the reason why Trump is in office.  But keep patting yourself on the back for being what the righties call a cuck.  You've earned that appellation.",Merit_based_only,e8ifs4p,SandersForPresident
"I work extremely part time. I make more than $15. I worked hard and bought an apartment with cash. I continue to save money while being paid ""poverty"" wages because I don't feel as if I'm owed anything and I don't blow my money on avacado toast and Starbucks. People who like Bernie are lazy (was me) and feel entitled to free shit because they don't understand the value of improving their lives. It's an ideological debate at this point. I don't think people working at McDonald's should be paid $15/hour to start. Nor those that work for small/large businesses that don't require skill or risking their health/lives. Our economy would be destroyed if the minimum wage were $15. There would be no incentive to better yourself and a majority of small businesses would not be able to pay those wages while profiting. 

P.S. Warren campaigned for Hillary. She is a shill to the establishment wrapped up in a progressive package to appeal to young people. She is also not Native American. Lol",Endlessmanager,e8h512k,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8igk2u,SandersForPresident
"I like Bernie and don't feel entitled to anything. I just like that he genuinely seems to care about people and has a lifelong history of campaigning for the most vulnerable people on the socioeconomic totem. You admit to having been lazy in the past; good for you that you are on the road to self-improvement, but your assumption that all his other supporters are the same is pure projection.

I see a society that takes care of its weak as a civil society. You think people are poor because they're not trying hard enough and just want to keep buying avocado toast? Try raising a family as a single mother, or affording medical bills for a life-changing accident by working 60+ hours per week at three part-time jobs, and then tell me they're not trying.

How in the world is Warren's heritage is of any relevance to the discussion... if that's what your mind jumps to when someone brings her up in any context, then don't be surprised when the people you're debating with think you've been poisoned by right-wing talking points.

I'm done. Good day to you.",Sir_Hapstance,e8h5rgl,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8ix9l1,SandersForPresident
"The War On Drugs is just a fancy nickname for a war on the African-American community.

&#x200B;",HereComesUncleMick,e8i1fbr,SandersForPresident
"Get rid of the scheduling system altogether. Decriminalize all drugs, like Portugal did with resounding success.",BopTheDrass,e8im1ud,SandersForPresident
"Indeed . . . Jeff Bezos the serious citizen would not just let his people feed their families by the sweat of their own labor, but he would be coordinating a strong Amazon union to set a standard across the entire retail industry, applying pressure to (and giving him a competitive advantage over) the most retrograde executive teams.  Instead he gave his bean counters permission to make a reasonable offer that would get this distraction off his plate so he could get back to focusing on whatever is more important to him than the dignity of productive American workers.",Demonweed,e8hcmae,SandersForPresident
"Read Bread Hours, who up?

> A merchant who has some capital need not stir from his desk to become wealthy. He telegraphs to an agent telling him to buy a hundred tons of tea; he freights a ship, and in a few weeks..the vessel brings him his cargo. He does not even take the risks of the voyage, for his tea and his vessel are insured...

>Now, how could he find men willing to cross the sea, to travel to China and back, to endure hardship and slavish toil and to risk their lives for a miserable pittance? How could he find dock labourers willing to load and unload his ships for “starvation wages”? How? Because they are needy and starving. Go to the seaports, visit the cook-shops and taverns on the quays, and look at these men who have come to hire themselves, crowding round the dock-gates, which they besiege from early dawn, hoping to be allowed to work on the vessels. Look at these sailors, happy to be hired for a long voyage, after weeks and months of waiting. All their lives long they have gone to the sea in ships, and they will sail in others still, until they have perished in the waves.

>Enter their homes, look at their wives and children in rags, living one knows not how till the father’s return, and you will have the answer to the question. Multiply examples, choose them where you will, consider the origin of all fortunes, large or small, whether arising out of commerce, finance, manufactures, or the land. [***Everywhere you will find that the wealth of the wealthy springs from the poverty of the poor.***](https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/petr-kropotkin-the-conquest-of-bread)",Andy1816,e8hndi0,SandersForPresident
">Yanis Varoufakis is exactly right. At a time of massive global wealth and income inequality, oligarchy, rising authoritarianism and militarism, we need a Progressive International movement to counter these threats. It is not acceptable that the top 1% of the world’s population owns more wealth than the bottom 99%, that multinational corporations and the wealthy stash over $21tn in offshore bank accounts to avoid paying their fair share of taxes, and that the fossil fuel industry continues to destroy the planet because countries are unable to cooperate effectively to combat climate change.  

>While the very rich get much richer, people all over the globe are working longer hours for stagnating wages, and fear for their children’s future. Authoritarians exploit these economic anxieties, creating scapegoats which pit one group against another.

>The solution, as Varoufakis points out, is an international progressive agenda that brings working people together around a vision of shared prosperity, security and dignity for all people. The fate of the world is at stake. Let us go forward together now!

-Bernie",Chartis,e8im6vc,SandersForPresident
">Billionaires made more money in 2017 than in any year in recorded history. The richest people on Earth increased their wealth by 20 percent last year. Meanwhile, over 40 percent of Americans don't have enough savings to cover a $400 emergency expense. That is what a rigged economy looks like.

>We must send a message to the billionaire class: “you can’t have it all.” You can’t get huge tax breaks while children in this country go hungry. You can’t continue sending our jobs to China while millions are looking for work. You can’t hide your profits in the Cayman Islands and other tax havens, while there are massive unmet needs on every corner of this nation. Your greed has got to end. You cannot take advantage of all the benefits of America, if you refuse to accept your responsibilities as Americans.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1982943285093999)  ",Chartis,e8i920z,SandersForPresident
She's not a radical though. Other dems are just flat out right wing.,BopTheDrass,e8hnpe2,SandersForPresident
"Copied verbatim (without the author's contact information or other unnecessary text):

>Hi all,

>wanted to alert you to a very disturbing thing happening in the National Archives world that may severely impact research, especially historical and scientific research. The Dept. of interior is asking for permission to destroy records about oil and gas leases, mining, dams, wells, timber sales, marine conservation, fishing, endangered species, non-endangered species, critical habitats, land acquisitions, and lots more. Basically records from every agency within the Interior Department, including the Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, US Fish & Wildlife Service, US Geological Service, Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of Indian Affairs, and others. This is all content that would normally go to NARA for collection and preservation. This is disturbing because previous administrations would obfuscate records by classifying/reclassifying records. This admin is basically just destroying records so they'll never be accessible.

>There's an October 29 deadline for comment to NARA: request.schedule@nara.gov /// fax: 301-837-3698 /// NARA (ACRA), 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park MD 20640-6001. (Be sure to say that you're referring to DAA-0048-2015-003.) Please forward to your networks and researchers who may be effected.

>More information: https://altgov2.org/doi-records-destruction/

>NARA's appraisal memo https://altgov2.org/wp-content/uploads/DAA-0048-2015-0003_Appraisal_Memo.pdf

>this is tragic and terrible.",no-militarism,e8glbkd,SandersForPresident
Geezus... I reported this to my local news affiliate; I hope I hear about this in the news.,conitation,e8hty24,SandersForPresident
But we are doing so many good things for huge corporations that don't really pay taxes into the system it draws its wealth from. /s,SerpentineOcean,e8hff2j,SandersForPresident
"Tweet: https://twitter.com/OurRevolution/status/1055825123679232000

Report: https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/insight/truth-about-water-shut-offs-america-you-wont-find-it-through-private-companies",Chartis,e8hpgkq,SandersForPresident
Link [Bernie Sanders Is Partnering With A Greek Progressive To Build A New Leftist Movement](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/amphtml/lesterfeder/bernie-sanders-yanis-varoufakis-european-spring-movement?__twitter_impression=true),gideonvwainwright,e8hwu0s,SandersForPresident
"

>In order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism, we need an international movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity, security and dignity for all people, and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists, not only in wealth but in political power.

>We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a global order based on human solidarity, an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity, that we all want our children to grow up healthy, to have a good education, have decent jobs, drink clean water, breathe clean air and to live in peace. Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who shares these values, and who are fighting for a better world.

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other. We know that those forces work together across borders. We must do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)

>We must develop an international movement that takes on the greed and ideology of the billionaire class and leads us to a world of economic, social and environmental justice.

>A new and international progressive movement must commit itself to tackling structural inequality both between and within nations. Such a movement must overcome “the cult of money” and “survival of the fittest” mentalities that the pope warned against. It must support national and international policies aimed at raising standards of living for poor and working-class people. We must rein in corporate power and prevent the environmental destruction of our planet as a result of climate change.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Jan 14^th '18](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/jan/14/power-billionaires-bernie-sanders-poverty-life-expectancy-climate-change)  

>It is a global issue, one that reaches across oceans and continents as oligarchy, authoritarianism, and kleptocracy spread from country to country, and democratic institutions fight for their survival.

>In order to fight this trend, we need to strengthen the global coalition of progressive democrats. While authoritarians promote division and hatred, we will promote unity, inclusion, and an agenda based on economic, social, racial, and environmental justice. Internationally, we must have the courage to take on the global oligarchy and bring power to the many, not the few. This world belongs to all of us.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 21^st '18](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)

>We will be safer when people throughout the world get to know each other, and understand the common humanity that they have... let us try to destroy the hatred that exists throughout the world based on fear and ignorance by allowing people to get to know one another.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/7RVIdUSuVbE?t=1125)

>It makes us safer when we reach out to people throughout the world in ways that bring us together... We are a safer country and a safer planet when we do our best to rid the ignornace and hatred which exists all over the world. Find and discover we have a common humanity... we have a lot more in common than we have in opposition. We can reduce hatred and bigotry in that way. Dialog should be taking place between people throughout the world at the grassroots level. 

-Bernie Sanders, [June 18^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0NJvL4iLUPI&feature=youtu.be&t=1004)  

r/GlobalProgress",Chartis,e8hxdo8,SandersForPresident
Sounds like we need a new party.,elprofdesion,e8hm668,SandersForPresident
"On the table, in the cards.
",flickerkuu,e8h6cvw,SandersForPresident
"Was educated in the British system where “on the cards” is accepted. 
Either way the important thing here is that Bernie is highly likely to run for 2020",special_happiness,e8h786a,SandersForPresident
Not being a Real Democrat™ is a plus.,BopTheDrass,e8gyboy,SandersForPresident
**[Support Andrew!](https://www.votesaturn.com/donate/)**,The1stCitizenOfTheIn,e8gy80y,SandersForPresident
"[Quote](https://youtu.be/QY_WIRDKS3M?t=236) followed by his calling out of the protesters:  

>Really? Do you really want to give a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the 1%? Is that what you want? Do you really want to throw 32 million Americans off the health care they have?",Chartis,e8gfmst,SandersForPresident
">Nordics have a lower standard of living than Americans

***AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA***

I would be a beggar in the street today if I were an american citizen! Check out my 60,000 USD a year entry level pay all thanks to the government's help during my unemployment days with its [universal basic income and accompanying employment/training programs](https://www.nav.no/no/NAV+og+samfunn/Samarbeid/For+kommunen/kvalifiseringsprogrammet). I've got the job of my dreams, have 5 weeks of vacation, can work harder to collect extra hours to forge into even more weeks of vacation, saving approximately 40% of the pay I get after tax dedication while living comfortably. goddamn, it is amazing what you Americans could accomplish if you voted in your interests instead of voting for religious or populist demagogues. ",Zincoshine_2018,e8gae6h,SandersForPresident
Is this true? I hope this is true... I thought that growing up but I know a lot of people my age that have drank the right wing/conservative kool-aid. Makes me nervous!,ShampooChii,e8gk3da,SandersForPresident
"Yes: https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg  


[Less than 19% of Americans voted for Donald Trump.](https://www.270towin.com/2016_Election/) There are only [32.6 million registered Republicans](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/2018-democrats-lead-gop-by-12-million-registered-voters), and [the trend is rapidly declining](http://www.people-press.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2018/03/2_8.png?w=420). Unfortunately death finds us all, and [~700,000 Republican voters die each year.](https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/05/the-gop-is-dying-off-literally-118035)


4 million Americans reach voting age each year. [Only 1 million of which have a favorable impression of the GOP.](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/poll-millennials-disillusioned-about-midterm-elections-n904436) 
  
Even according to [this absurdly right-wing poll:](https://www.americafirstpolicies.org/data/september-national-survey/)  

* 25% of Trump supporters want to abolish ICE  
* 24% of Trump supporters want Medicare for all  
* 40% of Trump supporters want insurers regulated to cover pre-existing conditions at the same rates  
* 14% of Trump supporters want liberal Democrats to nominate liberal activist judges  
9% of Trump supporters want the USA to transition to more of a socialist system  

---  

>There is an extraordinary level of beauty and decency all over this country.  

>Don’t believe everything you see on the tv.  

>There is a lot of beauty in this country. There is a lot of decency. The majority of the American people, they're hard working.  

>My reason for optimism is that having been all over this country:   

> * I see the decency in our people.  

>Our job is to bring our people together, not allow ourselves to be divided up. To think big, not small, to ask 'Why not?'  
I am optimistic because we’re a beautiful country with beautiful people.   

-Bernie, [July 15^th '17](https://youtu.be/8VDBmngXvAU?t=4156)  ",Chartis,e8gl6dy,SandersForPresident
"Are these polls even taking into account all the new voters that Ojeda would bring in?
",BopTheDrass,e8h1xp1,SandersForPresident
">Trump's tax bill was a scam from the very beginning. We have got to hold Republican leaders accountable for deceiving the American people and giving massive tax breaks to the wealthy and large corporations.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157406118747908)",Chartis,e8h0ss5,SandersForPresident
"Those crowds are inspiring! If that energy is mobilized into getting out the vote in these midterms we can make some really good changes. It'll be hard but not impossible to flip the Senate and have Bernie in charge of the budget even. As well, all those thousands of downballot progressive victories work themselves out into a significant amount of positive influence AND a gestalt effect too.",Chartis,e8ge66r,SandersForPresident
"[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1054758226422575104)

* The CEA report is amazingly awful. One thing I want to highlight is the section where they pretend that Nordic countries are low-tax countries because some individual tax provisions in the US are higher.

 [The average Nordic country raises $39 TRILLION more in revenues than we do.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqNAYEHWkAEkMxO.jpg)  

---   
‏[@smithmachine:](https://twitter.com/smithmachine/status/1054755964480565249)

* The White House's scatterbrained, 72-page attack on “socialism,” starts with [this Milton Friedman framework](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqM_EuhXgAcHp95.jpg) which concludes that it’s best if we forget what we learned in kindergarten and don’t share anything. Not sure how this results in having, like, a “society,” but freedom!, I guess?


* The argument then shifts to Scandinavia, which the White House implies is low-tax, because, like, the estate tax is lower, even as consumption taxes are higher. (And here I was, thinking that conservatives wanted to tax consumption?) Anyway, yeah, no. [Scandinavian countries are not low-tax.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqM_bpTW4AEYHfa.jpg)   


* [Here,](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqM_lRLXcAAat-4.jpg) the Trump White House implies that universal programs – especially health care – are better because you wouldn’t face an implicit tax of losing health benefits if you get a job.


* The document then attacks Senator Sanders’ Medicare For All proposal, saying you’d need to cut Social Security to pay for it if you didn’t raise taxes. (Yup, definitely [what’s being proposed.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/how-bernie-pays-for-his-proposals/) [/s])


* And that if you did raise taxes to pay for Medicare For All, you’d be on the wrong side of the Laffer Curve. (Not true – see chart above showing how much others tax – but also, any time you mention the Laffer Curve, you’re losing.)


* [U.S. health spending twice other countries' with worse results](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-spending/u-s-health-spending-twice-other-countries-with-worse-results-idUSKCN1GP2YN)

* The Trump White House then has [this sweet graph](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DqNAOe-XgAEnMJJ.jpg) showing how well America does single-payer.

* The White House concludes that it “does not expect that socialist policies would cause food shortages in the United States, because socialists are no longer proposing to nationalize food production.” Glad they’re so charitable!

* In summation, the Trump White House doesn’t like “socialism,” and has a truly impressive number of straw-man arguments to back up its claims.",Chartis,e8d6yep,SandersForPresident
Medicare for all needs to be a major talking point this coming presidential election. What are the republicans going to push that is better if the whole DNC was pushing Medicare for all?,DoodleDew,e8ddw03,SandersForPresident
"Disclaimer: not American, so maybe things are different, but...

The whole things seems stupid to be honest. They're comparing apples and oranges.

I'm pretty sure my ""wait times"" were lower when I was uninsured simply because I only sought doctors if I thought I was going to die. Otherwise I avoided health care as much as I could.

Now, I go to doctors way more often. Of course, sometimes I have to wait a few weeks to get an appointment with the doctor I prefer. But that's because I can look them up ahead and pick one that's an expert in whatever I think is wrong with me. If I was calling every doctor in town asking ""please help me I thing I'm going to die"" I could probably get one to see me asap, or just go to a hospital.

In a system where everyone is insured, maybe wait times will be a bit longer, but in a private system everyone who's not rich is waiting for a miracle before going to a doctor... And that doesn't count as ""wait time"".",LiarsEverywhere,e8dkhzi,SandersForPresident
"In case anyone is also dumb like me, no, the Senator did not use that hashtag, for the record.",mandy009,e8e6kvz,SandersForPresident
"[Time to get serious about activism.](https://i.redd.it/x052rp2r2tt11.png) Do at least one of the below and also consider that bringing out the vote locally & contacting out-of-state personal connections is crucial.

- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. You have to do things that get you really nervous. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Sometimes it's hard. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances, getting nervous, getting your feelings hurt every now and then. That's how you grow. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  
",Chartis,e8d510h,SandersForPresident
"Thinking about how fucking screwed america is with health care makes me so sad. It's so scary. I have health insurance through work. I never got the card in the mail. I don't even know how to look up my info. I had to do it once this year for a health assessment thing required to keep my (shitty) rates. I couldn't figure it out. I couldn't find it on the website. The pharmacist had to call in and get the company to confirm my insurance for me. I don't go to the doctor for anything because it costs too much and anything they tell me I might need done or prescriptions or whatever will just cost more. I suspect I have anxiety issues and/or depression but do I know? lmao no, it costs too much to know. I run now and every time i feel even a slight pain I start to panic. is this it? is this where my legs stop working and I don't know why and I can't get help? My left knee has some slight pain going up the steps after a run lately. Is something wrong? Is it serious? Do I keep going? Do I need to stop for a while? Hell if I know, I can't afford to go find out from a professional, so I'll just wing it, like a couple months ago when I had consistent pain in my right calf that I ""healed"" by trying out 3 different kinds of compression garments and a massage ball because it was cheaper than actually seeing a doctor. Took two months to totally go away. My right knee has had off-and-on weirdness since I was 15 years old, 13 years ago. Never saw a doctor about it. it's just a thing. It doesn't impact my range of movement and it's just annoying, not painful, so I don't even think about it anymore. My teeth are slightly more sensitive to cold lately and now I have to worry about the dentist. I'm not even going to try and figure out when the last time I went to the dentist was, because people get really insulting about that statistic no matter what it is if it's more than ""within the last year"", but hey- another thing that's just too expensive.

Because I live in America, and it costs too much to care.

God forbid I come down with an actual meaningful issue. I'll be crippled financially.",Materia_Girl,e8e6mnu,SandersForPresident
I really wish he used that hashtag,zipp0raid,e8ej6yb,SandersForPresident
"Conservative economic policy isn’t based on reason, it’s based on “sharing doesn’t feel as good as not sharing” and so we shouldn’t fight it with only reason. We should also fight it by pointing out that if you don’t share you’re a weak person who can’t support people, women or men won’t find you attractive, and you won’t have any friends.

Republicans are so sensitive and ego driven. Need to speak their language. ",gniknosmirceht,e8esh1k,SandersForPresident
"I've got a friend like this who thinks he understand economics and therefore the entire world better than everyone else and loves the notion of a free market being ideal but then will routinely make the case the proves, unquestionably, the free market is not the answer.

He recently cited [this article](https://www.wsj.com/articles/thousands-of-southerners-planted-trees-for-retirement-it-didnt-work-1539095250?mod=searchresults&page=1&pos=1&fbclid=IwAR1gTxkctSHPYaJfiye2-ZN1o3SgX3jUpFj9XJSqJabwXWnU5ozxJ19_0V4) as proof that capitalism saves the environment and did not understand when I pointed out that he was literally missing the forest for the trees. I did not even address the fact that capitalism failed these people in the article in a spectacular fashion to the point they will no longer be able to retire.",hankbaumbach,e8dhf6m,SandersForPresident
Presenting that hashtag like that is disingenuous. Sanders would never say something as crass as.that.,SithAlpaca,e8f0sij,SandersForPresident
Vote ocasio because of this ,PointlessCarnal2018,e8dgncw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8er3ix,SandersForPresident
"Can someone explain like I'm five ""wait times""? The amount of sick people isn't going to increase if we all have health care. In fact wouldn't it decrease? ",Towns-a-Million,e8f9f2w,SandersForPresident
"Medicare recipient here that needed to see a specialist, neurologist.  The wait time for me was like 2-3 months.  The wait time had nothing to do with Medicare, and everything to do with the limited number of specialists in my area.  I could have seen one sooner, but that meant having to drive well out of state, and I wasn’t driving at the time.  

The campaign to continue convincing us that it’s bad is entirely profit motivated.  Insurance and doctors make more than they would under a system that negotiated prices and limits how much they can charge.  

They don’t give a shit about wait times, they give a shit about losing the ability to overcharge you.  

Anyone who tells you Medicare sucks is straight up lying.  

",Fariic,e8fbm6v,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8cyxo7,SandersForPresident
"I’m not paying anymore for anyone else’s healthcare, looking at my taxes the government already takes enough.  I want my taxes lowered not higher.  ",draken9898,e8f5a7t,SandersForPresident
Yeah except the whole “we can’t afford Medicare for all” he really self owned himself!,YourOwnGrandmother,e8eogbu,SandersForPresident
"I'm a die-hard single payer supporter, but in the interest of having our facts straight, isn't the idea that if we put everyone into the same systems as our seniors, it would make the wait times longer?",Complaingeleno,e8dq2n6,SandersForPresident
"Who's gonna pay for it? The only reason it works is bc of some of the strictest immigration laws so either you give up on immigration reform or you give up on this... can't have both Bernie is like an old ugly miss America, full of unicorns n peace on earth w/o any idea of how to get there... o n taxing the wealthy is a bad idea bc unlike us jerk offs they can actually move out of this country.",jagwazi,e8evyju,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ekuli,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8enbgf,SandersForPresident
"Imagine losing the presidency to a side of beef and a Cheeto.


This comment was made by the capitalist gang",KermitThatFrog,e8ewsf7,SandersForPresident
"The last line in the fineprint at the bottom of the ""sweet graph"" of single payer really sums it all up.",Boomshank,e8ek25t,SandersForPresident
Thank you for posting this. Very insightful.,RsLarry,e8d7vn6,SandersForPresident
"One point on your first link- $39T is the amount of revenue the US would have to bring in in order to match scandinavia's tax revenue/GDP ratio. It's a confusing graph, to be fair.",majorscheiskopf,e8er0dq,SandersForPresident
"I've still never seen a convincing argument as to why I should be expected to give my money to others. And I'm open to hearing them. But I think the demand for socialization is why the country is dealing with right wing leadership right now. We grew up wanting the American dream, fighting and working for your success. Taught that to struggle is a gift in itself. I'm a bit disillusioned by everything in the country these last few years, but I do know my money is mine, and I have no intention of sharing.",JRS0147,e8ev0m6,SandersForPresident
"If you really want to get under their skin just follow your MFA argument with something like ""what would Jesus do? He'd help the underprivileged with universal Healthcare. ""  Then you could watch the conservative media sphere explode with ""JESUS ACTUALLY HATED POOR PEOPLE"". ",thebeef111,e8duhfl,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8ea0hs,SandersForPresident
The Republicans are out there pushing Medicare for Nobody.,mandy009,e8e6n9e,SandersForPresident
I feel single payer won't work until the pharmaceutical industry prices are regulated and a cap put on them. And regulated prices for medical services. Else the cost will just keep climbing. ,jambavamba,e8elxfj,SandersForPresident
When you're uninsured the wait time is your emergency savings - so for most it's wait until your life is in danger.,mandy009,e8e70d7,SandersForPresident
I thought he did and almost lost it laughing,Mtownsprts,e8ejxr4,SandersForPresident
"I went 5 years between dentist visits, and this was knowing that i still needed work done. They're used to that. Just go. ",OtherCat1,e8f3r8a,SandersForPresident
Our market isn't free,Princesspowerarmor,e8efdtb,SandersForPresident
"Capitalism works wonders in markets with limited demand and unlimited resource. Just like communism a true free market works on paper but isn’t practical in reality. People are always going to get sick/hurt, and greedy people will take advantage of that. Which is one of the primary reasons governments exist in the first place. But mixing the two... that’s heresy. ",wittedburrito,e8eaj9h,SandersForPresident
"My dad is a big fan of the idea of ""free market"" health care. Like being able to buy his prescriptions from Canada, where it's so much cheaper because they have the exact opposite of free market healthcare. ",OtherCat1,e8f3vjv,SandersForPresident
There are plenty of reasons to vote for her,Princesspowerarmor,e8efi51,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8eslt0,SandersForPresident
"There are 41 million Americans who receive Medicare that are listed as 65 years old and older (so not including people on disability). The total senior population is 46 million. Those numbers are from 2011, when private insurance premiums were lower and Medicare expansion was still being enacted in many states, so most likely even more seniors are on Medicare than before.

Tldr; 41 out of 46 million seniors are on Medicare. So approximately 88% ",RsLarry,e8d36ke,SandersForPresident
"Also, Medicare isn't exactly the same thing as single payer.  Medicare only covers some things, and it works like a health insurance plan, where you still have to make monthly payments, with copays or deductibles.  It's not like being in a Scandinavian country, Canada, etc where you go to the doctor, he takes care of you, and you leave.  So it's not exactly the same thing as single payer.  It's discounted health insurance, not ""free"" health insurance.",techmaster242,e8d7n9h,SandersForPresident
"If every other first world country can afford some form of government healthcare I don't see why the richest country in the world can't. Government healthcare is overwhelmingly popular in every country that has it, and the US healthcare system is one of the most unpopular. It's not a secret as to why. Out of every major democratic country, there's only one that allows people to go bankrupt because they were born with a genetic disorder. There's only one that forces people to get two or even three full-time jobs just to pay for their cancer treatments because they can't get good insurance. There's only one that allows corporations to overcharge several hundred dollars for life-saving drugs that only cost $10 to make. There's only one where you pay hundreds for insurance every month and never miss a payment, get cancer, and then have your insurance deny you because you had chicken pox or acne as a kid decades ago.

The complete disaster of a healthcare system we have is not only insanely immoral, but also destroys worker productivity, and costs us a lot of money. This, combined with a myriad of other things, makes medicare-for-all the obvious choice, and the only ones who are opposed are insurance CEOs, the people payed off by them, the poor souls who have bought into the propaganda, and the rich oligarchs who don't want the peasants getting life-saving checkups and surgery before their sprained ankle is dealt with.",Venteran,e8epljd,SandersForPresident
Wait times are already infinitely longer for those who can’t afford to go. To those people even “longer” wait times are better than no wait times. ,Zexks,e8dvlpo,SandersForPresident
"Healthcare is rationed in every country. In the US healthcare is rationed according to how much you can pay. The cost of our lower wait times in this chart is that 20,000 people die every year because they cannot afford healthcare. Even more go bankrupt because of the costs. 

In practical every other advanced country, healthcare is rationed by need. If you have a heart attack? You go to the front of the line. If you have a stroke? Front of the line. If your doctor suspects you have cancer? You're not waiting to see a specialist. The cost of this is that non life-threatening treatments get pushed back. If you need a hip replacement, you may have to wait a bit. It will be inconvenient - it will probably suck, but you will ultimately get the treatment you need. Additionally in many of these countries you can elect to purchase supplemental insurance, where you can buy lower wait times if you can afford it.

I also thing that the chart this whole discussion is around it very misleading. The chart shows a percentage of seniors who had to wait more than 4 weeks for a specialist appointment. 

What it does not show:

-It doesn't show what percentage of those people who had those wait times and life threatening vs non nonthreatening conditions. 

-It specifically mentions that it does not include respondents who never tried to get an appointment. So this chart doesn't include people who avoided seeking medical care due to cost. 

-A range of wait times. It could be that Canada's wait times are commonly more than 4 weeks, but rarely more than that and that America's wait times are consistently at 3 and a half weeks, and rarely less than that. Maybe it's the opposite and seniors in Canada are waiting years for hip replacements. I don't know. The graph doesn't show that information. 

-Also, why 4 weeks? Why that specific marker? Why not 3? 2? Why not 6? or 8? I would suspect that's because they think that is that data that make their data look the best. it would be easy to show the standard deviations for specialist wait times between different countries. I want to see that graph.

It is also funny that this applies to seniors *who are under a single payer system* in the United States.",JuxtaTerrestrial,e8e0vi8,SandersForPresident
"If there is only one payer you would be expanding both the patient pool and the provider pool. Not sure if anyone has done analysis on wait times, but I think the ultimate goal of one payer is to also promote more providers to perform primary care instead of specializing, as increased access to primary care will decrease the need for specialist care as chronic problems are diagnosed sooner and followed much more closely. Obviously, this would take some time for the changes to work through, but is truly the only sustainable model for large-scale healthcare. Otherwise it will just be those rich enough to afford care will have it.",4thgenerationdude,e8dwgeo,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8duilh,SandersForPresident
"Yes, because more people would have access to medical care outside of emergency services.",whisperingsage,e8dvn32,SandersForPresident
"This is exactly the problem.   Seniors and others on medicare/medicaid do OK right now, but only because most doctors severely limit the number of medicare/medicaid patients they will see.  They do this because they lose money on them.   Most take on a few, either out of altruism or perhaps they are required to do so, I don't know.  But basically, they are being subsidized by everyone paying the full rate.  

If everyone was on Medicare, then there would be a massive reduction in doctor income.  This will cause a lot of doctors to get out of the business.

In fact, this is basically how single payer works - you drive prices down until you start having provider scarcity problems.  That's how you know you've squeezed the optimum amount of blood out of the turnip, so to speak.

Personally, I don't have a problem with wait times.

Maybe you could have optional insurance for ""concierge"" medical service that puts you at the front of the line or something.",throwaway28778282737,e8dwfsg,SandersForPresident
"You’d pay for it like you’re already paying for private insurance, or roads, or police.  In fact, you’re already paying for it if you work, you just can’t use it.  

You also continue to pay for it after you get it because there’s a premium that you pay.  

Immigration has nothing at all to do with Medicare.  ",Fariic,e8fbvkz,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion of progressive policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",Venteran,e8es8u3,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion of progressive policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",Venteran,e8eoh3y,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8f0frg,SandersForPresident
"[Because it's in your best interests.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ)  

>Strong political governance is required to accomplish the [key transitions.](http://www.ipcc.ch/report/sr15/) Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)   

>* Stop irrationally demonizing taxation and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[Philip Alston](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E): UN Report on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights, June 22^nd 2018  

[And because of the consequences if you don't.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IRS_penalties)",Chartis,e8ev7i0,SandersForPresident
"Your money is yours, but you are paying taxes to make your country better. It's a service if you want to look at it that way (when said money is put to good use). Which is why I have trouble understanding why anyone would not pay taxes.",kynthrus,e8ewln1,SandersForPresident
"You want freedom without responsibility. And who is to say you didn't take this money you claim is ""yours?"" Oh, and finally, why do you want others to struggle?",worldfusionwisdom,e8famz3,SandersForPresident
"They don’t want your money, they want corporations to pay taxes period instead of zero or getting writeoffs so they make money back. ",wtfeverrrr,e8f2es4,SandersForPresident
"So why would you ever support policies by these idiots like Paul Ryan and Donald Trump who have never really worked a day in their lives and whose policies consistently help themselves, their wealthy cronies, and their donors? Taxing the absurdly wealthy will not affect your wallet, but billions of dollars are spent trying to convince you that it will.",iambingalls,e8f36vc,SandersForPresident
I have never seen a convincing argument for libertarianism.,AfternoonWesternAz,e8fa5je,SandersForPresident
Jesus only washed feet and let them eat fish. But I don't see him performing free surgeries. Just perfect angelic bodies. /s,mandy009,e8e6v98,SandersForPresident
"The usual response i get when trying to use the bible to convince religious people is that ""I do what i can to help those in my community, but i shouldn't be forced to give my tax dollars to help other people.""

It's fucking bullshit imo, but that's the response I've gotten.",JuxtaTerrestrial,e8dy2c5,SandersForPresident
"Cherry pick just like them.  Bring up the Jesus argument when they are being unchristly, but when they want public funds to enter religious pockets...remind them that the Bible supports the separation of church and state...""Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's and unto God that which is God's""  If they don't get what you are doing...congratulations on leading them down the garden path.",cuddleskunk,e8eqcmx,SandersForPresident
He died for ME! not the poor,anotherusercolin,e8ermsr,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, it's a bit of a stretch to think that the entire dnc is going to push medicare for all. ",oodsigma,e8erdwo,SandersForPresident
"One of the strengths of single payer is lower drug prices. As if the Gov doesn't want to buy your drug because you're charging to much, then you have to lower your price. It moves pricing power away from the pharmaceutical producers and towards the pharmaceutical consumers. ",oodsigma,e8ergth,SandersForPresident
"Much to my friend's chagrin...that's why things are so bad in his opinion. It's tiring sometimes, but rewarding when he proves himself wrong.",hankbaumbach,e8fhyww,SandersForPresident
"Whilst I agree, and I'm not saying *free markets are better -*  I almost feel like we need to make a decision. Free Markets with very low income tax and high corporate (and other) taxes might be the best way to go in certain situations. It really all boils down to what's happening with the tax money.  


E.g. 1) Very low income tax and high other taxes - Govt. provides healthcare, environment, infrastructure and security - and that's it. You can do what you want with your money and everyone will be *20% (approx)* richer. Free flowing money can (and has) led to innovation in some cases.   


E.g. 2) Very high income taxes - the govt. should provide you with *almost everything -*  in this scenario you can bet your ass that the govt. has your ass.   


I don't think (in my limited knowledge) that the two can work together. ",everysundae,e8eff4n,SandersForPresident
Yet it's the only way to create a balanced system ,Princesspowerarmor,e8efhi0,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8d41cd,SandersForPresident
your description isn't my experience for family members. and the basics Medicare does cover is the difference between life and death in some cases. I do pay supplemental for a family member which can be a little or a lot depending on your means and health. ,anhartsunny,e8dajgt,SandersForPresident
"And some people are calling it Medicaid for All, for precisely that reason, but Medicare is mostly the same nationwide, and we don't want people comparing the shit-tier Medicaid in Louisiana with what we propose.",TheChance,e8diuoq,SandersForPresident
"> If every other first world country can afford some form of government healthcar I don't see why the richest country in the world can't.

Pretty simple, we take on the burden of preserving stability and peace in the world while the disgraceful “socialist democracies” freeload.

Also the problem with our healthcare system is too much government, not too little. Also we invent basically all of the lifesaving technology / medicine. ",YourOwnGrandmother,e8epr4m,SandersForPresident
"Right, but that refutes the point being made in this post which is that we should be putting everyone on single payer because Medicare in America has short wait times.

Edit: People, I'm literally on your team. I believe healthcare is a right and that we should have universal healthcare regardless of what it does to wait times. But having said that, bandwagoning like this is a trap, and it makes us all look like we don't know what we're talking about.",Complaingeleno,e8ecdih,SandersForPresident
"You're right. [Where private insurance is being taken up and utilized waits in the public system became longer in Australia.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15683360) 

>Sometimes people have a perception, fueled in part by media discourse, that paying more for something makes it better. But it's not actually born out by evidence on outcomes...  
>The wait time alliance in Canada. We've found that working within a single payer system we can reorganize... to use your queues most effectively... when you try to address wait times you should do it in a way that benefits everyone, not just people that can afford to pay...  

>There are 45,000 in America who die waiting because they don't have any insurance at all...  

-[Dr. Danielle Martin](https://youtu.be/iYOf6hXGx6M?list=UUD_DaKNac0Ta-2PeHuoQ1uA&t=89)

In the end it [saves trillions](https://i.redd.it/568es2zlhnr11.png), and will free up people from being restricted to their jobs if their insurance was a significant factor in keeping them there.  ",Chartis,e8dyak9,SandersForPresident
"[61%](https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/558940/Payers%20and%20Providers%20Remain%20Far%20Apart.pdf?__hstc=&__hssc=&hsCtaTracking=9e67cd59-629a-4558-8d71-b8c034af3880%7Cf4086258-bd80-4201-937a-d3e875d9ddd2) of health care executives, clinical leaders, and clinicians said a single-payer would improve the value of care.

Doctors who receive funding through the Medicaid program would [receive higher rates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FR8K4yhBK28&feature=youtu.be&t=303) through Medicare For All. And doctors would also be saving significant amount of [hours wasted on bureaucracy](https://www.commondreams.org/views/2018/09/11/medicare-all-and-myth-40-physician-pay-cut) each week. Cutting out the middle-men, reducing wastes, and operating as a [monopsony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopsony) is very efficient.",Chartis,e8dxl10,SandersForPresident
a lot of this has to do with medical school debt. which would be forced to decrease if they didn't get paid as much,Xx_Gandalf-poop_xX,e8e50ja,SandersForPresident
"It will force doctors to take more patients and they will be making the same if not more without insurance companies stealing the money from actually going towards doctors, your argument is flawed",Princesspowerarmor,e8efto5,SandersForPresident
At least I didn’t lose to a side of beef and a Cheeto ,KermitThatFrog,e8f0qm8,SandersForPresident
I don't want them to. I want them to hustle and work and grind until they succeed like I did.,JRS0147,e8fp6hj,SandersForPresident
"Next time they say that tell you that remind them to read Matt 5:42

> ""Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.""

A reoccuring theme with Jesus was about giving to those, not only what you can spare, but giving all they ask for/need, and in turn never expecting for anything in return.",IronOreAgate,e8dzdua,SandersForPresident
"That's the same I get myself. I had a very interesting discussion with a hardcore right wing ""religious"" guy who believes that the left is going to start a civil war I'm still trying to figure out where this one came from. Had a German guy in there as well and I was making points that completely shot down what this guys was just arguing aginst. German guy agreed on me on a few points so I knew he thought a lot of stuff was I was talking about was normal but the other guy played it like the left was a group of pedos that wanted to have European style taxes and full socalisim ",A-through-Z,e8elt1g,SandersForPresident
"<I’m the one that’s sinning, not the poor>",Enigmatic_Iain,e8f7qgy,SandersForPresident
America has enough people that if they bought cheaper from elsewhere they could probably sink any company that is overcharging due to the market loss. ,Enigmatic_Iain,e8f7zo5,SandersForPresident
"I don't think they'd be in Medicare if they had the means to buy private insurance, I think is what they are getting at. And I have to agree, all the seniors I know couldn't possibly afford another $50 a month, let alone a few hundred for an insurance premium.",mw19078,e8d49kv,SandersForPresident
">Seniors in America still have the choice of using private healthcare if they have the means and that makes a huge difference

You said that private healthcare makes a huge difference when used. I was just showing you evidence that the vast majority of seniors don't use private insurance so it doesn't apply to them.

>Seems like a real stretch to say this.

Also I was trying to convey that for most part this isn't a ""real stretch"". There's already 49 million people in Medicare and another 74 million on Medicaid. So for the most part, I'd have to disagree.",RsLarry,e8d7kf9,SandersForPresident
"Not sure if you've noticed, but the US hasn't really been doing too great of a job at the whole peace and stability thing. Really, just let other countries handle their own problems and stop getting involved in Saudi Arabia, Iran or Syria. So far we've only made them worse.

We need to invest in our home and our people, and huge corporations are not going to start magically doing that by decreasing their taxes by billions of dollars. We need to invest wisely, and things like Medicare for All and another New Deal would instantly see great results.",Venteran,e8eqfd6,SandersForPresident
America does not preserve peace anywhere. You have bought the bait mate. Cheers from Australia.,artbymyself,e8er5f2,SandersForPresident
"There is a limit to how many patients a doctor can see.  Once a doctor has a patient base that fills all their time, they cannot see any more patients.

The problem is that right now only a small portion of their patient base is on medicare/medicaid, if any.  If all of them were, their income goes down substantially.

This is *why* Canada has longer wait times.  There is not enough money to induce increased supply.",throwaway28778282737,e8fhavv,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8f1a97,SandersForPresident
That's what you tell yourself. It only fools you.,worldfusionwisdom,e8nwlzj,SandersForPresident
"They usually don't end up caring about what the bible says, unfortunately (at least not beyond the superficial). 

Most people are religious because it makes them feel good, or makes them comfortable, not because they've read the bible and use it for a guide in their life. They will always find excuses to not follow what it says: ""oh that was the old testament"" or other similar repeatable apologetics ",JuxtaTerrestrial,e8e1bvh,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8d4kxg,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8eqkbu,SandersForPresident
I have a PhD in polisci. Tell me more ,YourOwnGrandmother,e8er81l,SandersForPresident
"How do they make less money? You have failed to make that point, most of that extra cost goes to the insurance company the doctor charges the same rate. Your argument has so many holes I'll havd it on a sandwhich",Princesspowerarmor,e8r57x7,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",JayandSilentB0b,e8f1hpo,SandersForPresident
Hello leech.,JRS0147,e8o81o2,SandersForPresident
Conservatives sound like they only read the Old Testament.  The one with Jesus talks about giving to the poor and loving your neighbour.  ,rhaegar_TLDR,e8ea9z9,SandersForPresident
It helps though to make them explicitly state their disregard for jesus so when they try to use it to justify their beliefs smart people can call them out on their hypocrisy ,Princesspowerarmor,e8ef7vc,SandersForPresident
"I find that there is a difference between saying, ""Jesus says X"" and literally quoting scripture to them. While a direct scripture isn't guaranteed to outright win you the argument, it usually does have the effect of shutting them up. Which is sometimes just as good.

Besides, I pay the government or I pay a corperation, either way I am actually paying for someone else's treatment. That's how insurance works.",IronOreAgate,e8fvjkp,SandersForPresident
"I'm not downvoting you, so don't complain about it to me my dude. 

But I don't know how you can say what I'm telling you isn't necessarily true, the poverty rates for senior citizens is clear and widely available knowledge. Very few seniors could afford private insurance, they wouldn't be relying on medicare if they could. Medicare is okay for checkups and emergency room visits, for actual health problems, which seniors constantly have, it's not. 

It is easy to pay someone, but isn't easy to afford it. That's the big part of this picture you're ignoring. Speed and quality of care for private insurance means nothing to most seniors who cannot afford it. ",mw19078,e8d6s6v,SandersForPresident
">US hegemony has coincided with the most peaceful times in world history.

And before that British hegemony did, and before that it was the French, and before that the Germans, and before that the Romans, and then the other Romans. It's the most peaceful time in history because every time is always the most peaceful time in history. Averaged out across the globe every century has seen less human in human violence that the last, America had nothing to do with it. ",oodsigma,e8erucv,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8f0hw2,SandersForPresident
Yet your still stupid .. go figure.,artbymyself,e8vebmv,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ek3o4,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8erwyc,SandersForPresident
Yeah I’ve noticed Bernie bots have to go through extensive amounts of denial to convince themselves they aren’t just ignorant children pushing long-discredited philosophies ,YourOwnGrandmother,e8fpvl7,SandersForPresident
Do you have any evidence to support your claims? ,paulieshortz,e8epqe3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8esksx,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ersve,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8evgqj,SandersForPresident
">University of Nevada Reno

>1664 N Virginia St

>Reno, NV 89557

>Join Nevada Democrats for a #RiseNVote Rally with Senator Bernie Sanders in Reno, Nevada! Then join fellow Nevadans in heading to the polls to vote early.

>Doors open at 10am and the program begins at 11am.",gideonvwainwright,e8fpzhs,SandersForPresident
I don’t know which column to be more repulsed by.,CinnamonJ,e8g5m30,SandersForPresident
"This is very, uh...yikes. ",antwoneoko,e8g78qp,SandersForPresident
Just shows how uniformed the average American is. On both sides,carminedg123,e8m55zg,SandersForPresident
"North Carolina 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://www.ncsbe.gov/Voting-Options): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8humtv,SandersForPresident
">Performing Arts Center at Las Vegas Academy of the Arts

>955 E Clark Ave

>Las Vegas, NV 89101

>Join Nevada Democrats for a #RiseNVote Rally with Senator Bernie Sanders in Las Vegas, Nevada!

>Doors open at 4:00PM doors and program starts at 5:00PM",gideonvwainwright,e8fqut5,SandersForPresident
"https://polisforcolorado.com/issues/

He was a rep for years and is now running for gov.... he is worth over 400 million from tech and is really into blockchain

He opposed the Iraq war!

He opposed the Patriot Act!

He cares about the environment and I hope he wins. He has a little bit of a lead 52 % in the polls so lets hope he wins.",4now5now6now,e8ehtij,SandersForPresident
"Those 10 votes changed the course of history in immeasurable ways. Were it not for them, Vermont might still be run by liberal republicans.",Zincoshine_2018,e8fkmge,SandersForPresident
"Colorado 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://www.sos.state.co.us/voter/pages/pub/olvr/verifyNewVoter.xhtml): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://www.sos.state.co.us/pubs/elections/vote/VoterHome.html): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8gmchx,SandersForPresident
">Medicare for all is an idea that's time has come. This year, there are more candidates than ever on the ballot all across the country who are supporting Medicare for All. In this pivotal moment in American history, we must go forward to guarantee health care as a right and not a privilege. This is a struggle not just about health care but about the heart and soul of our country, about what we stand for as a people. And it is a struggle we are winning thanks to all your hard work.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1980737911981203)",Chartis,e8etui7,SandersForPresident
Theres a lot of concern trolling in this article,sasiralla,e8fox9u,SandersForPresident
Only person benefiting from these bombs is trump. Give him a chance to call for unity,big_baller_zone_,e8f9r99,SandersForPresident
you cannot be serious with that title.,brasiwsu,e8eozu4,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8esjbw,SandersForPresident
"More votes means more progressives in office. These right wingers can’t tell the difference between centrists and progressives.  They targeted public figures that they think are our “champions” 

I despise Hillary and Soros. I respect Obama and Biden, but I think the time for their brand of politics is long passed. No matter who the targets are, this kind of action is intolerable. 

I stand by everything I said. These bomb threats were clearly meant to intimidate people who these right wing wackjobs think are on the left. It’s a result of Trump’s rhetoric. This should be taken as another reason to vote. To show them that these tactics are pointless and only serve to harden our resolve!",Gusthe3rd,e8evjur,SandersForPresident
">We have got to get Facebook, Twitter, and to all these platforms and say, 'Sorry you have not done a good job and you're gonna have to change what you're doing'.  

-Bernie Sanders, Feb 21^st '18 [@15:01](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)

Thank you to Reddit's [Anti-Evil Team](https://cmxhub.com/article/alexis-ohanian-reddit-5-year-plan/) for continued efforts in this direction.",Chartis,e8fv5rr,SandersForPresident
"While you're here, if you haven't already, you may want to consider going to [preferences](https://www.reddit.com/prefs/) and unchecking:   

>1. Use the redesign as my default experience.  
>2. I would like to beta test features for reddit.  

In addition your experience here may be improved by using an adblocker such as ublock origin:    

* Firefox: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ublock-origin  
* Chrome: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm  
* Opera: https://addons.opera.com/en-gb/extensions/details/ublock  

We're currently in the process of revamping our front-end for CSS, Reddit's redesign, mobile, and app based interfaces. If you have any suggestions in this regard, or how to improve user's interface experience in general, please share.",Chartis,e8fw6cc,SandersForPresident
"If anyone since there is no viable alternative to the electoral college, you just say proportional voting.

The electoral college is complete bullshit.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8fouct,SandersForPresident
Kristen Eberhard's series on voting methods.,barnaby-joness,e8f641y,SandersForPresident
Inappropriate.,xxoites,e8eiobb,SandersForPresident
why? Schummmer's inaction allows for human rights abuses on a huge scale. that is what is inapropriate!,silvertui,e8exahq,SandersForPresident
Too soon?,LBJsPNS,e8ejxl8,SandersForPresident
At this moment in time anybody could be killed tomorrow. We are in a weird place in our history right now.,xxoites,e8exe1g,SandersForPresident
He is just as much a target as everybody else. This has been going on for three days and we have no idea when it will end.,xxoites,e8ek8yw,SandersForPresident
We've lost four sitting presidents to assassinations. This is nothing new.,souprize,e8f43xm,SandersForPresident
Schumer is probably the biggest Wall Street Democrat out there. He also just fast tracked a couple dozen judges recently for Mitch McConnell in exchange for nothing. It probably wouldn’t even be the worst thing in the world if he was gone considering the millions of lives he is helping to destroy. Search “NYT Chuck Schumer Wall Street” there are whole articles about how much Wall Street loves him. ,LouisSlungpue,e8fuuq0,SandersForPresident
"I never said he wasn't a piece of shit I just don't want to see him killed.

Words have meaning and he is a Democrat and could also be a target.

Of course he would have a better chance if trump had attacked him recently.",xxoites,e8fvci7,SandersForPresident
"While I don’t advocate that Chuck Schumer be killed. If Chuck died, it would objectively be a positive thing for America, the Democratic Party, and humanity. He is an awful corporate ghoul who serves the interests of his Wall Street donors above all else.",LouisSlungpue,e8fvlug,SandersForPresident
What a horrible thing to say.,xxoites,e8fw41c,SandersForPresident
"TL;DR:  

>The War in Yemen is a humanitarian disaster.

>Many thousands of civilians have been killed. Millions are now at the risk of the most severe famine in more than 100 years.  

>* We are providing bombs the Saudi-led coalition is using  
>* We are refueling their planes before they drop those bombs  
>* We are assisting with intelligence  

>An American-made bomb obliterated a school bus full of young boys. American weapons have been used in a string of such deadly attacks on civilians.  

>2015-2018 more than 30% of the Saudi-led coalition’s targets have been nonmilitary.   


---  

>Mr. Pompeo had overruled the State Department’s own regional and military experts. President Trump himself echoed this logic when asked about the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, claiming that the Saudis are spending “$110 billion” on military equipment. A former lobbyist for the arms manufacturer Raytheon leads Mr. Pompeo’s legislative affairs staff.  


>The relationship between Iran and the Houthis has only strengthened with the intensification of the war. The war is creating the very problem the administration claims to want to solve. The conflict between Saudi-led forces and the Houthi insurgents had helped Al Qaeda and the Islamic State’s Yemen branch “deepen their inroads across much of the country.” 

---  

>American engagement there has not been authorized by Congress, and is therefore unconstitutional.  

>1. the war is a strategic and moral disaster for the United States. 
>2. the time is long overdue for Congress to reassert authority over matters of war.

>[Senate Joint Resolution 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/54) calls on the president to withdraw from the Saudi-led war in Yemen.  

>The Senate voted 55 to 44 to delay consideration of the resolution. Next month, I intend to bring that resolution back to the floor. 

>The brutal murder of Mr. Khashoggi demands that we make clear that United States support for Saudi Arabia is not unconditional. Human lives are worth more than profits for arms manufacturers.",Chartis,e8efm7e,SandersForPresident
"Step 1 is to hit the activism *[HARD](https://i.redd.it/x052rp2r2tt11.png)* for the next 2 weeks:  

* Bring out the vote locally & contact out-of-state personal connections
* [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
* [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
* [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  

---

Bernie is releasing [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8e802o,SandersForPresident
Good Luck :),highly_educated,e8g8khd,SandersForPresident
">As this piece makes clear, the murder of Jamal Khashoggi is part of an alarming trend with the Saudi Arabian government. Whether it’s the devastating war in Yemen, or cracking down on peaceful political protests at home, Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman has ruled with increasing recklessness and authoritarianism. The United States must stand for human rights everywhere, and make clear to the Saudis that this includes their country too.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157406467117908)",Chartis,e8etqjk,SandersForPresident
"[How California public employees fund anti-rent control fight unwittingly](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/oct/23/california-public-employees-unwittingly-fund-rent-control-fight): Documents reveal Blackstone is quietly funneling investors’ money into its campaign against Proposition 10
",Chartis,e8etxny,SandersForPresident
">It makes absolutely no sense that people in the bottom 20% of earners face a state and local tax rate that is 50% higher than the top 1% of households. It is time for the wealthy to start paying their fair share.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1980660901988904)",Chartis,e8e5r5w,SandersForPresident
"I'm a Canadian. If Sanders ever gets elected, I'll probably celebrate with a trip to Washington DC.

It would be so nice if our leaders were friends again.",HammerBioLizard,e8c5oc7,SandersForPresident
"Hmm. Sanders has nothing to do with the account that posted the video, doesn't appear in the video, and isn't even quoted on the issue....",JDGumby,e8cnabl,SandersForPresident
"good job Canada, Idk why Bernie has a beard in that thumbnail but it looks awesome. ",HUMOROUSGOAT,e8cwgie,SandersForPresident
"I'm buying weed for the first time this Friday. As a Canuck, I am pumped! Seriously though, I'm the most happy that the people I care about don't have to hide and pretend they don't smoke. It's incredibly stupid to have your permanent record ruined for a non-violent crime.",BigHaircutPrime,e8cwgtn,SandersForPresident
"Congrats to Canada, but why is this on /r/SandersForPresident?",bacondev,e8cw2um,SandersForPresident
"It’s “legal”

Meaning it’s heavily corporitized, taxed and government controlled.  Big fucking deal.
",midnightrambler108,e8c6z8g,SandersForPresident
"Source is listed in the video description: https://www.instagram.com/p/BpSPVNGh95C/?hl=en&taken-by=berniesanders  

[Here's Senator Sanders Statement:](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157389156497908)

>Congratulations to Canada for becoming the first industrialized nation to legalize cannabis. In my view, it is long past time that we in the United States end the federal prohibition on marijuana. Too many Americans, disproportionately people of color, have seen their lives destroyed because they have criminal records as a result of marijuana use. If we are serious about criminal justice reform, we need to take the important and overdue step of decriminalizing marijuana. There is no reason we should be classifying marijuana as a Schedule I drug next to heroin.",Chartis,e8d2zdd,SandersForPresident
I'll get some when the price inflation post-legalization cools down,BopTheDrass,e8daf0l,SandersForPresident
Also means they aren’t ruining people’s’ lives over weed anymore,SuspiciousOfRobots,e8cczvi,SandersForPresident
"Subject to [provincial or territorial restrictions](https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-medication/cannabis/laws-regulations/provinces-territories.html), adults who are 18 years of age or older are [legally able to:](https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-medication/cannabis/laws-regulations.html)

* possess up to 30 grams of legal cannabis, dried or equivalent in non-dried form in public
* share up to 30 grams of legal cannabis with other adults
* buy dried or fresh cannabis and cannabis oil from a provincially-licensed retailer
* in provinces and territories without a regulated retail framework, individuals are able to purchase cannabis online from federally-licensed producers
* grow, from licensed seed or seedlings, up to 4 cannabis plants per residence for personal use
* make cannabis products, such as food and drinks, at home as long as organic solvents are not used to create concentrated products
  
",Chartis,e8c7h1o,SandersForPresident
"Ya no. This changes a lot. I know someone who’s life was ruined over a bag of weed one year ago. If he were caught with that today, nothing would happen and he wouldn’t have gone to jail and he’d still be a productive military member. Big positive change has occurred ",Jmb7373,e8cuwmi,SandersForPresident
"You know a can of Coca Cola is ""corporitized"", taxed and government regulated. So is that box of mac and cheese you just ate.

Stop trying to demonize everything. We don't live in the wild wild west here.",GandalfSwagOff,e8c7isn,SandersForPresident
libertarian alert ,Blueowl789,e8cxq5h,SandersForPresident
Like tobacco?,anusasoa,e8c8glj,SandersForPresident
"Now people aren’t arrested, that’s a big fucking deal. Now companies and people can legally grow it. And reduce the prices and create great medicines",carminedg123,e8dzfny,SandersForPresident
"> Source is listed in the video description

...but not in the video itself, so no one who watches it via an embedded player, such as on Reddit, will ever see it.",JDGumby,e8d33wr,SandersForPresident
"It’s possibly not true nothing would happen. If it’s more than 30 grams you can still be busted.

What they’ve done is taken weed economy from “criminals” and gave it to the criminals of government.

I think weed should have been decriminalized and not legalized.  I don’t think it should be controlled at all.

I chose to not smoke, I don’t care if other people do.  I don’t necessarily think this is a positive change either.  I think society should be more focused on other things.  Hopefully from weed being legal people will see it as what it is.  A crutch.",midnightrambler108,e8cwsz4,SandersForPresident
Yes,Jmb7373,e8d0jqh,SandersForPresident
"If videos are hosted on his Senatorial account or (recently reactive) campaign account those links are always used. The non-monitized RedditForBernie account is a place to rehost content from his facebook account and other sources where users here and Reddit's interface result in lower engagement.  

https://www.youtube.com/user/SenatorSanders/videos  
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCH1dpzjCEiGAt8CXkryhkZg/videos  ",Chartis,e8d3o99,SandersForPresident
"No in this case nothing would have happened. It was less than 30g. under the current rules , he would have had no punishment. Stop trying to make things sound worse than they are. 

What we’ve done is allow normal people (not criminals) live their lives without having to fear punishment.  Stop being such a curmudgeon ",Jmb7373,e8d0czv,SandersForPresident
"I don't care about legal weed.

The fucking Liberal government increasing the interest rate today by .25% is a far bigger deal to me.

The government is not my friend.  

Bernie Sanders couldn't run a fucking shoe store.",midnightrambler108,e8d1s2k,SandersForPresident
"Ok then maybe the government spending money imprisoning people for weed was a good thing to get rid of?  Also, maybe other people like different things than you and we would like to purchase a product that we are sure isn’t laced with PCP? Also the interest rate going up is a good thing for some people! The whole world doesn’t revolve around you and your consumer debt ",Jmb7373,e8d2px2,SandersForPresident
"Also, Bernie has terrible style. You’re right, he shouldn’t run a shoe store. He is a very strong politician though! .You sound like you’re just a grump,swearing and complaining about anything that changes. You don’t really have any good arguments other than complaining about the evil government ",Jmb7373,e8d2xqy,SandersForPresident
"Nobody in Canada went to jail for smoking weed.  What you are claiming is bull shit.

Sure some people went to jail for dealing it, and according to the law they can still go to jail.  If buddy down the street is selling it out of his house for $3/gram and selling 50 kilograms a year he can still be busted and thrown in jail.

> Also the interest rate going up is a good thing for some people! The whole world doesn’t revolve around you and your consumer debt 

Most people have a mortgage.  I have a mortgage and the cost of my home just went up.  

You know who doesn't have a mortgage?  Fucking baby boomers.
",midnightrambler108,e8d2x2m,SandersForPresident
"Yup. Military members went to jail for smoking. They won’t anymore.
Ya I have a mortgage too with a locked in interest rate! I’m good to go. When interests rates went down it bothered me a bit but i managed that ok ,too. I’m a millennial btw. I understand that interests change. They change with Torys and the change with liberals. Just because something inconveniences you a bit, doesn’t mean it’s evil. Grow up ",Jmb7373,e8d3j30,SandersForPresident
"[Time to get serious about activism.](https://i.redd.it/x052rp2r2tt11.png) Do at least one of the below and also consider that bringing out the vote locally & contacting out-of-state personal connections is crucial.

- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)  
- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Donate to Bernie's Tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  

>We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. You have to do things that get you really nervous. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Sometimes it's hard. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances, getting nervous, getting your feelings hurt every now and then. That's how you grow. That's how you grow.     

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  
",Chartis,e8avicf,SandersForPresident
">Rebuilding the trade unions and leftwing political movements that could actually bring about a different sort of political economy... will come from the mobilization of people on the streets, and in their workplaces and communities. Sanders is the only candidate that can open up those possibilities^1.

>It will be easy for Sanders supporters to spread their vision to people who feel unrepresented by establishment politics. With his relentlessly disciplined messaging, Sanders has communicated to millions exactly what he is about. It isn’t “corporate citizenship”, it’s creating a “political revolution” to get what’s rightfully ours from “millionaires and billionaires”^2.

>More and more people are struggling and looking for an alternative: Medicare for All, a jobs program, tuition-free college and a living wage are all incredibly popular. In large part, this is because of Sanders and the movements he has spent his life supporting and has recently helped revitalize. Whether or not they want to call it democratic socialism, millions of Americans are ready for a political revolution built around their needs.

>Elizabeth Warren is a progressive who can be an important part of a broad coalition for change, but we need a democratic socialist leading that coalition if we’re to deliver it.",Chartis,e8at9p1,SandersForPresident
"""I am a capitalist to my bones"" - Elizabeth Warren

""He's a socialist, and I believe in markets."" - Elizabeth Warren",lrlOurPresident,e8atm2h,SandersForPresident
"Warren's cowardice in 2016 was the end of her presidential ambitions, as far as I'm concerned.",abudabu,e8asvs5,SandersForPresident
"Spot on.

Sanders is the best candidate to change our countries politics. Warren is an ally and if necessary, an acceptable alternative, a consolation prize if we can't get Sanders or someone else who is better.

The prospect of another neoliberal actually terrifies me.",The_Popular_Populist,e8au7h4,SandersForPresident
"I stopped believing in her after she remained silent on the Native Americans at Standing Rock, which makes her blood test for Native American heritage kind of meaningless...

But let's be clear, I am mad at her for her silence, and the Conservatives could give two shits about what happened at Standing Rock, and their fake outrage against the blood test is soley based in racism.

If she can't stand up to Oil Companies when it matters most, I don't trust her to do it in the future. Only two cannidates went there and spoke out, Sanders and Jill Stein. ",attosama,e8b472a,SandersForPresident
Let them both run and run on their merits. I'd be happy to support either. ,archetype1,e8ayd47,SandersForPresident
"I'd like to see the two on a ticket, with Bernie for Prez.",lobido,e8btfko,SandersForPresident
ITT: people trying to divide democrats instead of uniting. And we wonder why we hardly stand strong against the GOP,SgtHappyPants,e8b2lco,SandersForPresident
"She backed Hillary over Bernie.

Was very disheartened.",anonymous_being,e8az6l2,SandersForPresident
"It's a little concerning (and suspicious) that this topic (the made-up Warren vs. Bernie battle) is getting so much play.

The reality is, if Bernie doesn't run, are you really going to vote against Warren in the primary vs. the other likely options?  I would certainly hope not.  Bernie wouldn't, surely.

Just saying, if you're going to bash someone, bash someone who's done nothing to earn your vote.  Warren made, in my/our opinion, a mistake in 2016.  She's still the 2nd-best option we have, and the best if Bernie doesn't run.

I also don't see them both running, at least not past the first wave of primaries.  They're both too smart to think that splitting the progressive vote will help anyone.",onyxium,e8cb4e3,SandersForPresident
"My concern about Warren is that it seems fairly possible that she'd be a clumsy campaigner on a national scale and she projects an ""emotional"" sort of aesthetic in her style that would probably galvanize the Trumpies because if there is one thing they hate more than a so-called ""socialist"" it's a lady appearing frustrated or sad for any reason. ",outlawyer11,e8b1d0h,SandersForPresident
"As someone that didn't vote for HC in the general, wow, way too much Warren hate in this thread... Yes, her record is far from perfect, she doesn't have the same backbone Bernie does. She seemingly makes politically selfish choices to benefit her political career. These aren't great things and it easily makes her a second choice to Bernie and generally less trustable. However at the end of the day, her poor decisions seems to be politically motivated(not sticking her neck out for what is right every time) rather than corporately motivated(sucking the dicks of corporations, policywise). Her being one of the few in the Democratic party that have actually successfully attacked wall street is reason to vote for her. Imagine how much that goes against the grain, where everyone else in the DNC is willing to bend over backwards for them...   


Not to mention, she seemingly fully supports the basic policies progressive are looking for. MC4all, stopping students from getting fucked by student loans, getting money out of politics. Things can definitely change over the course of a campaign and I will definitely be looking out for it if they do but saying ""fuck her"" this early is idiotic. She is almost literally the one other decent option. Saying Bernie or nothing seems absurd to me.",marshall19,e8bk3qj,SandersForPresident
Can somebody please get some of these posts on R / politics please?,aeternitatisdaedalus,e8b7bi1,SandersForPresident
warren is no Bernie.,plsobeytrafficlights,e8bvzwz,SandersForPresident
Warren has ZERO chance. Anyone who thinks otherwise is living in a bubble.,Floydian101,e8b4iec,SandersForPresident
"Warren decrys trump is a psychotic man child who shouldn't have a military, then voted to give him more money for bombs.  She is a fucking hack.",phurbain,e8au253,SandersForPresident
Not sure what’s so hard about this.,hobo_chili,e8c7iri,SandersForPresident
"IMO Warren is too divisive. I like her and look forward to voting for her again, but personally I prefer if she stay in the senate.",ExiledSenpai,e8ble68,SandersForPresident
"This sub makes me have hope.  How is r/politics allowed to continue their corporate ""center left""bullshit? I am shadowbanned from there now. Do they still have that much money/support? Scary",aeternitatisdaedalus,e8b7wg6,SandersForPresident
"He’s the only person who is capable of speaking truth to power. I have seen the rest of them, including EW shy away from addressing unpopular opinions. Bernie has integrity. Plus, young people are drawn to him more than any other challenger and then he’s male and white so that doesn’t hurt either with DT voters. Sensible people will find a way to get him into office!!! Anyone other then him will not make it and cost us like HRC did in ‘16. ",tisseng,e8br29k,SandersForPresident
Warren is unelectable now after the DNA lunacy. ,dad_soup,e8bhexo,SandersForPresident
"Shoulda been candidate in 2016, would’ve prevented all of this shit. Fucking dnc cheating scum. ",maxyo22,e8bp3ql,SandersForPresident
Warren is great on policy but inept on strategy.,AlfredJFuzzywinkle,e8bs8t5,SandersForPresident
They should make a deal to support whichever one is doing better in the primary after a certain point. I have little doubt it would be Sanders,Neopergoss,e8bz2me,SandersForPresident
"I’m going to make a bold (ish) statement: either Sanders or Warren are the best chances of beating Trump. 

*Anyone else* is a guaranteed 2nd term for Trump. ",BigTroubleMan80,e8c7jka,SandersForPresident
"So 2020 is going to be a repeat of the cluster fuck that was 2016 for the DNC?   They will do the same crap again, push hard on Warren and ignore Bernie.   She is NOT going to get elected to the presidency, ever.  She has garnered so much hatred she'll just be Hillary 2.0.  And yet again a split party will just be handing votes to the Repugnicans.

Edit: I'm not hating on Senator Warren, I appreciate her progressive efforts such as they are.  But she has done some seriously bone headed things and shouldn't even be considering running for President, especially if it harms Senator Sanders campaign.  But that is just my opinion.   Either way I support her continued active participation in our government.",,e8bsuf1,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8bgur3,SandersForPresident
Warren helped to confirm Ben Carson and voted for massive war budget increases. She’s not progressive. ,knightfluttershy,e8bo2k1,SandersForPresident
As a Canadian I'm really rooting for both of them. ,Srawesomekickass,e8baezu,SandersForPresident
"As someone who has been slowly pulled more and more right the past year and a half, I would vote Sanders in a heartbeat. Did in the primaries, I hope people do this time around.",phhalfie,e8bkqa0,SandersForPresident
"I'd prefer Sanders, but honestly, Warren will beat him in a primary and it probably wouldn't be close. Not as close as Clinton-Sanders was.

Bernie is proof that you can keep your compass pointed at true north and do everything right for your whole career and you still get undermined by stupidity and cynicism on the part of the public.",cakeyogi,e8bzlgh,SandersForPresident
"No it doesn't, no one can do that anymore. Corporations now own the supreme court. ",Zincoshine_2018,e8ay8je,SandersForPresident
Warren is by far the best of the rest.,mrfizzle1,e8bdv8e,SandersForPresident
"I would be more than happy to see either candidate as the democratic nominee. It's also way too early to be fighting over ""our favorite flavor of democrat"". Thats a big reason we lost the last election.",grayemansam,e8byi92,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8bb3oy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8c3pev,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8c4417,SandersForPresident
**TULSI**,Ghoztt,e8c627r,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8c6wu2,SandersForPresident
Question from someone who would have voted for either Trump or Sanders to stop TPP: why don't the Democrats remove the central bank like the founder of the party? Central banking has obviously been a disaster for the country.  Someone who backed that approach would get wide support. Trump probably wouldn't make that move and everyone hates banks now. That's the only thing that could make me consider voting Democrat for the time being. I'm very happy with what Trump did on TPP and other trade agreements and he's meeting his campaign promises unlike any politician in recent memory. And maybe since  James Polk. Another Democrat.,KarlXXII,e8clgit,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8cqlk8,SandersForPresident
"Let's not get caught up in best and only right now.  I'll take Sanders, no doubt.  If Warren gets it, I'll take Warren, and if Gabbard gets it, or whoever, I'll take it over the alternative of Trump or any other Republican.

Let's be clear:  I *want* Sanders in the Oval Office, but literally anything that isn't a Republican is a step in the correct direction at this point, even Clinton if by some freak catastrophe she runs or whatnot.  I'll suck up 4 years of Clinton if it means a strong reversal of all of the crap that has happened and most likely will continue to happen for the next couple of years.",echisholm,e8bchu4,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, I was a supporter of Warren before Sanders. With the financial issues that are looming on the horizon, I believe Warren is better prepared to handle these issues than Sanders. 

To the rest of you that would rather name-call and disparage your opponent even if they are fighting for the same things - I have one thing to tell you. **Grow the fuck up.**",QuietGentleman,e8bd171,SandersForPresident
Does she even support Universal health care and free (or low cost) tuition? ,baldobilly,e8ayitp,SandersForPresident
Yes!! I agree with Sanders all the way!! We should all fight [insert outrage] together!! #resist #blue wave #NotPlayingitCool,fladawgs,e8bhaln,SandersForPresident
"I'd vote for Bernie in a heartbeat if he was my choice on the ballot, of course I'd vote for just about anyone over Donny Dingleberry.",WhidbeyForever,e8bm2lt,SandersForPresident
The way that she went about trying to prove her native ancestry was [disgraceful](https://splinternews.com/elizabeth-warrens-deception-1829755302). She’s a weak progressive at best.,davidsthomas94,e8bpixm,SandersForPresident
"Best stop even thinking about Warren unless you hope to lose. She's a corporatist and a cynical politician. Same reasons Hillary lost. We'll have a woman president some day, but not this time around. This time let's give Bernie a real chance. If we do, and he manages to grow a spine and get a taste for real political roughhousing, the country may have a chance at redemption.",iusetotoo,e8c1n5a,SandersForPresident
I prefer Warren run ,watrboy,e8cb7b3,SandersForPresident
I believe Sander's missed his chance...unfortunately.,AtDollerDoller,e8cobq6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8azlrw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8azwn7,SandersForPresident
Warren can do it.  Guaranteed Sanders will be right there with her.,13Man,e8bnpu0,SandersForPresident
"Why wouldn't we rather have Sanders as Speaker of the house or Senate majority leader. If he leaves Congress won't it be harder for him to wrangle in the centrists in the party. We certainly need someone like him as president right, but I'm not so sure he's gonna have as much leverage on the party if he takes the presidency. 

Just a question.

Not at all that I want Warren as president btw",jet-saline,e8bvc0d,SandersForPresident
this is why we can't have nice things,wharrgarble,e8c7w9t,SandersForPresident
"Warren is a woonatic. Bernie can be anti-science as well, but he's better than Warren and Trump. At least he believes in vaccines and climate change... even if he is against nuclear power and wants to label GMOs...",IGNOREMETHATSFINETOO,e8cabpc,SandersForPresident
"Warren is an ex-republican and threw Bernie under the bus and sidled up to that hag Clinton. Screw her.
",flickerkuu,e8axpp1,SandersForPresident
"I apologize in advance if this question causes any negativity, but I dont understand the idea of taking ""what is rightfully ours from millionaires and billionaires"". Why are wealthy people, (many of whom are self made business people who make large contributions to the economy and philanthropic interests), entitled to distribute their earnings equally to people who didn't put in the work to create businesses? I don't mean to offend or sound condescending, I am just genuinely interested in this point of view and why people hold this belief. ",jbarkleyisdead,e8bd4tp,SandersForPresident
😂,lIIllIIlIlllIlIlIlI,e8bl1dz,SandersForPresident
I’ll pass on socialism. ,Jayttt98,e8c7u7r,SandersForPresident
Can't wait for mass starvation due to socialism ,StupidFrik,e8boyen,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8b3d4h,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8blwf0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8bwt16,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8c7t8r,SandersForPresident
Bernie is too weak,FreshStink,e8cmbsn,SandersForPresident
Elizabeth Warren is a fucking joke.,SystemError420,e8cotyo,SandersForPresident
"Warren had a moment (couple of years) where she really captured the feeling of the time and political momentum. Seems to be passed that time.

Sanders is odd because he seems to have retained that link. That said, it's much harder to see him winning this time and I think it's time for some new blood — several top contenders, like Kamala Harris, Seth Moulton, Beto, Andrew Gillum, Iron Stache.",reddit-time,e8bdl8c,SandersForPresident
What about Michelle ,atheosuede,e8bpn7d,SandersForPresident
"I want to get involved, but I currently abroad and thus am not able to make calls. What can I do?",frenchiefanatique,e8bdfgo,SandersForPresident
"1: [Bernie completely & utterly dominates the youth vote](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg)

In the 2016 campaign Bernie won [~1/3rd more votes from those under 30](http://civicyouth.org/exclusive-analysis-donald-trump-and-the-youth-vote/) than Trump & Clinton combined.  

In the general, Millennials & Gen Xers together [cast more votes than older generations combined.](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/07/31/millennials-and-gen-xers-outvoted-boomers-and-older-generations-in-2016-election/)  

---  

>We got more votes than Trump & Clinton combined. And as a result many of the ideas which we raised (which were then considered to be radical & extreme), because we stood together fighting for justice those ideas are not radical anymore. They're supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.

-Bernie, [Oct 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtDH2XfY1ko&feature=youtu.be&t=3472)  

>Getting young people involved in the political process will determine how successful we are and will in fact determine the future of this country. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://twitter.com/NYTLive/status/1047880870957371393)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: He has an incredible appeal among young people who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is [most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720) 

>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)  

>Young people are the future of this country. You are leading this country. Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)






",Chartis,e8atk7l,SandersForPresident
"2: [Making the wealthy pay their fair share](https://berniesanders.com/issues/making-the-wealthy-pay-fair-share])

**Reforming the Corporate Tax Code**  

* End the rule allowing American corporations to defer paying federal income taxes on profits of offshore subsidiaries.
* Prevent corporations from avoiding U.S. taxes by claiming to be a foreign company through the establishment of a post office box in a tax haven country.  
* Eliminate tax breaks for big oil, gas, and coal companies.  
* Prevent American companies from avoiding U.S. taxes by corporate inversions.  
* Close loopholes that allow U.S. corporations to artificially inflate or accelerate foreign tax credits.


**Reforming the Estate Tax**

* Exempt the first $3.5 million of an individual’s estate from the estate tax.
* A 45% tax that would only impact the wealthiest 0.3% of Americans who inherit more than $3.5 million. 50% for $10-$50 million of value, 55% for $50+ million, and an additional billionaire’s surtax of 10%.  

* End tax breaks for dynasty trusts.
 1. Strengthen the “generation-skipping tax” by applying it with no exclusion to any trust set up to last more than 50 years.
 2. Bar donors from taking assets back from GRATs just a couple of years after establishing them 
 3. Ensure walthy families pay income taxes on earnings generated by assets in “grantor trusts.”
 4. Sharply limit the annual exclusion from the gift tax for gifts made to trusts.

* Close other loopholes in the estate and gift tax, including valuation discounts.
* Protect farm land and conservation easements, 
 1. Allow family farmers to lower the value of their farmland by up to $3 million for estate tax purposes.
 2. Increase the maximum exclusion for conservation easements to $2 million.


**Tax Wall Street Speculators**

* Create a tax on Wall Street to significantly reduce speculation and high frequency trading. 
 1. This plan would provide a tax credit to individuals making under $50,000 and couples making under $75,000 to ensure that they would not be impacted.
 2. Trades would be taxed at a rate of 0.5% for stocks, 0.1% for bonds, and 0.005% for derivatives.


**Lift the cap on taxable income that goes into the Social Security Trust Fund**

* Tax on all income above $250,000 to expand Social Security benefits and to ensure that Social Security remains solvent for the next 58 years. 98.5% of wage earners would not see their taxes go up.  


**Reforming the Personal Income Tax**

* End Tax Breaks for Capital Gains and Dividends for the Wealthy: Repeal the special, low income tax rates on capital gains and stock dividends for married couples with incomes greater than $250,000.  

* Higher Income Tax Rates for the Wealthiest 2.1% percent of households.  
 1.  37% on income $250,000-$500,000.
  2.  43% on income $500,000-$2 million.
  3.  48% on income $2 million-$10 million.
  4.  52% on income $10 million and above. 

* Limit tax deductions for the rich: Replace the Alternative Minimum Tax, PEP, and the limit on itemized deductions with a $0.28 dollar limit on tax savings for each dollar of deductions for households with incomes above $250,000.


See also:  

[How Bernie pays for his proposals](https://berniesanders.com/issues/how-bernie-pays-for-his-proposals)

[How Will We Pay for It? Making Public Money Work for Us](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/)",Chartis,e8atges,SandersForPresident
"> ""He's a socialist, and I believe in markets."" - Elizabeth Warren

""Bernie doesn't believe in markets,"" a line you'd expect out of Breitbart.",BopTheDrass,e8awfdb,SandersForPresident
"socialism isn't necessarily at odds with markets, it depends on the type of socialism.  this fundamental misunderstanding makes her comment's intentions clear: smearing and shaming",cuam,e8b37jr,SandersForPresident
I think this is more an issue than her lack of an endorsement. The future is socialist in some way and we all need to know this and embrace it. It's Socialism or Barbarism,Cheechster4,e8awfqh,SandersForPresident
Hold on... Did she really say that? Does Mrs. Warren not know what a market is?,SLowfalls,e8bf4g8,SandersForPresident
"> ""He's a socialist, and I believe in markets."" - Elizabeth Warren

That's not in the linked article and seems to be sourced from a BuzzFeedNews articles which is speculating on how she'd differentiate herself.",zdss,e8epwkh,SandersForPresident
"Not to mention making a big deal of her ""native ancestry"" *DESPITE* doing absolutely nothing in regards to Standing Rock.",BopTheDrass,e8awc0s,SandersForPresident
Care to elaborate? Cowardly how exactly?,aa1607,e8au7ld,SandersForPresident
Pretty much ,saul2015,e8bbg7w,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8axqwl,SandersForPresident
"I know I'm going to get hate, please don't downvote me into oblivion but, well, you don't see how this kind of mentality is a problem? I'm all for Bernie, I will poop my pants if he won the presidency, but for crying out loud, Warren is not "" a consolation prize "", she is a strong candidate in her own right and we would be lucky to have her, *OR* Bernie, as President.  
  
This only promotes the "" I only care about my team "" mentality we see from the right. While it's fine to say you are for Bernie, *I'M* for Bernie, don't make it seem like an "" oh well I guess this is what we get "" if another Democrat wins. To much division within the party can do NO GOOD.  
  
Again this isin't a hate rant, just something I felt the need to state.",Shayedow,e8blp31,SandersForPresident
"What makes you think Warren isn’t a neoliberal?

She votes along party lines with the other neoliberal. She only talks tough towards Republicans but is a spineless coward in the face of the DNC. She will champion nothing except her own career.",LiquidDreamtime,e8awup8,SandersForPresident
"Me too, but I'd go the extra fathom for Bernie.  

Just like we have to share-and-share-alike & stand-on-our-own-two, we must also produce attractive candidates & foster a cultural responsibility to vote no matter what if our strength is to be enough to overcome the challenges that hinder remedy to our pain.  ",Chartis,e8ayiyq,SandersForPresident
she can of course run if we wishes and i support her right to do so. However it has the possibility to split the progressive vote. it would much stronger statement if she endorsed Bernie who appears to have stronger progressive than she. ,silvertui,e8ba9ll,SandersForPresident
Then hit those activism links hard. Lean into the fight.,Chartis,e8bthm9,SandersForPresident
we’re about to have a primary?? that’s when parties are supposed to have intra-party debates,froli007,e8be4no,SandersForPresident
"Ah yes because we should unite with cowards like Schumer and Pelosi, whose poor leadership of the Democrats in Congress has allowed the GOP do get away with so much

Lemme guess you’re one of those people who thought Clinton was entitled to Bernie’s voters in the general",4ArthurDent2,e8b3zbv,SandersForPresident
"I agree. This is fucking weird. We're not talking Joe Manchin, its Elizabeth Warren. 

Divide and conquer is an effective technique and we should not be doing it for them.",kjturner,e8byy9h,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8c9nh7,SandersForPresident
The democratic establishment divided the party when they decided to represent corporate interests over the working class.,IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dses6,SandersForPresident
"To be fair, she back Hillary after she won the nomination. She never endorsed during the primary.",pablonieve,e8bycvi,SandersForPresident
She's not a politician and it shows. She may believe in the cause but she doesn't play the game well. She's not polished and she comes across as clumsy. It's impressive she's gotten as far as she has but I wouldn't bet on her getting much further. ,macwelsh007,e8b3ofs,SandersForPresident
"She is too technocratic and over-thinks every little thing Trump says. She would spend her entire campaign in tweet wars with Trump and not go into enough about what she stands for.

I like how Bernie keeps it simple and just repeats his standard speech. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dtfj1,SandersForPresident
"I had hoped that there would be more civility for   

>[My friend Elizabeth Warren](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/my-friend-elizabeth-warren-is-right-its-time-to-join-the-rest-of-the-industriali/1659768394078158/)    

and someone Bernie calls his favorite Senator. They work [well together.](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/warren-sanders-criticize-amazons-distribution-of-anti-union-video-at-whole-foods) Being able to separate personal attacks from a policy & strategy discussion would do us well IMO. The vitriol and ire somewhat mutes our valid points in this regard.",Chartis,e8bkf2g,SandersForPresident
I honestly think we're seeing trolls already.,grayemansam,e8c07mi,SandersForPresident
"> her poor decisions seems to be politically motivated.

Yes. Politically motivated in that she seems to carefully calculate what will appease the democratic establishment.

She is definitely the next best option after Sanders. But it's not enough to just be right on the issues. It's how much you are willing to fight against the democratic establishment when they push back and try to crush you.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dts9k,SandersForPresident
">Can somebody please get some of these posts on R / politics please?

Doesn't bash trump. Won't get upvoted.",PDNYFL,e8bf208,SandersForPresident
"She could campaign as our first woman, and first Native American president. That’d be a pretty big deal. ",rumpelsimpleton,e8bwt9t,SandersForPresident
"Do as you say, not as you do. This definitely applies here.",robotzor,e8b6vob,SandersForPresident
The most divisive person on Earth is literally the President.  Divisiveness is just GOP concern-trolling.,ManlyBeardface,e8c7fyw,SandersForPresident
"Probably, money drives politics in today's world. And since /r/politics is one of the default subreddits in Reddit (I think), ""donations"" and monetary support tend to flow to the ones that run it. And unfortunately I don't see an easy way out of it because there will always be people out there willing to throw away morals and pride for personal gain/value.",kyperion,e8bo4px,SandersForPresident
"[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>His leadership on issues such as a $15 minimum wage, free public higher education and labor rights makes him the clearest, most consistent and, yes, [the most popular](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png) voice on the political Left...   

>He’s a battletested, nonpartisan ideologue with a record as long as it is reflective of political integrity. From gay equality to the Iraq War, Sanders’ ability to get it right so often isn’t just luck—it’s indicative of his commitment to principles over party, politics or donors.",Chartis,e8breny,SandersForPresident
I’m 0.04% victim! ,rumpelsimpleton,e8bwuy1,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8ca6rt,SandersForPresident
"Don't worry, they'll push kamela first.  Younger, Tanner Clinton that still takes money from rich people while saying whatever it is they think you want to hear to get your vote",Fat_Maestro,e8carh9,SandersForPresident
"Our efforts have influence to that end. Step 1 is to hit the activism *HARD* for the next 2 weeks. Then after that we fight like hell for something closer to heaven. #RunBernieRun  

He'll be releasing [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)  

So for the next 2 weeks we must do our damnedest to be who is needed. Our efforts to date have [made some great strides.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DiVCo54WsAEcsNY.jpg)   ",Chartis,e8bt6na,SandersForPresident
Re-read the headline. It’s saying Warren isn’t as good as Bernie. ,dad_soup,e8bhgs6,SandersForPresident
"Bernie got 60% more support than her in [an Oct 1^st poll](http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2018/images/10/13/cnn.poll.ssrs.trump.biden.pdf). He came in 2nd, she came in 4th. He's also showing [significantly stronger than her in the general.](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png)  

[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>His leadership on issues such as a $15 minimum wage, free public higher education and labor rights makes him the clearest, most consistent and, yes, the most popular voice on the political Left...   

>He’s a battletested, nonpartisan ideologue with a record as long as it is reflective of political integrity. From gay equality to the Iraq War, Sanders’ ability to get it right so often isn’t just luck—it’s indicative of his commitment to principles over party, politics or donors.  

But let's get to work and hash this out after the midterms. After all, as Bernie puts it, it's [our job now.](https://ourrevolution.com/action/)  

>We have [2] weeks to go in the most important midterm election in the history of this country. That is what we focus on right now. It is very wrong to deflect attention from the need to end one-party-rule in Washington right now.  

-Bernie, [Oct 14^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=1212&v=Dns28txD3c)",Chartis,e8c021p,SandersForPresident
"No way she can best Bernie in the primaries. Sanders has way more charisma, despite his advanced age and appearance.",pseudointel_forum,e8c2qm7,SandersForPresident
">Our job is to have a vision. Don't be afraid of a vision. Don't be afraid of somebody saying 'You're too idealistic.' Don't accept that. 

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 25^th '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3aQTb_Xcyh4&feature=youtu.be&t=354)  ",Chartis,e8ayfn2,SandersForPresident
Corporations have owned our entire government including both political parties for decades.  The only thing that will change this is a mass movement.,IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8duqqn,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8bb6j8,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8c3t4t,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8c4908,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8c7k2l,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8d2jxw,SandersForPresident
Warren and Sanders don't necessarily have the same goals in mind.,pseudointel_forum,e8c2k5v,SandersForPresident
"Yes: 

https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804/cosponsors  

https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/806/cosponsors",Chartis,e8aysh8,SandersForPresident
Reddit activity checks out.,davidsthomas94,e8bpm80,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8b0eyd,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8b0fnf,SandersForPresident
"As a Senator he'd be eligible for Senate majority leader. He's currently the [Ranking Member of the Senate Budget Committee](https://www.budget.senate.gov/ranking-member/newsroom) which means if the Republicans loose control of the Senate he'll get to write the budget. So let's press hard for that.  

If we take the Presidency I'm certain he'll have much more beneficial influence and whoever he endorses for his seat will likely be a boon in the Senate.",Chartis,e8bvybz,SandersForPresident
"Nuclear is not sustainable like solar & wind are. The Sierra Club & Greenpeace also oppose nuclear power. On top of that [transitioning the power system is no longer a technological issue, it's one of political will.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be&t=123) The economics & optics of nuclear are a needless hindrance on that front. 

>Diablo’s cooling system sucks in 2.5 billion gallons of seawater. An estimated 1.5 billion fish eggs and larvae each year get swept along for the ride, churned, cooked and killed. The water then returns to the sea about 18.5 degrees warmer than it left. To get relicensed, it would need new cooling towers and it might need to upgrade for earthquake safety. New cooling towers would cost $8 billion. If you took that $8 billion, you could replace Diablo Canyon with on-shore wind and utility-scale solar. So to say closing it would increase emissions is just nonsense.  

-Mark Jacobson, professor of civil and environmental engineering 

>As reactors get older, they get more expensive to maintain. It’s not competitive with renewables or natural gas. By mid-century, we might have 20 reactors operating.

-Matthew McKinzie, nuclear energy expert

>There are 61 nuclear power plants in the US. The vast majority were built in the 1970s, before the Three Mile Island nuclear meltdown and the Chernobyl disaster soured public opinion on nuclear energy. Plants last around 50-60 years and are relicensed every 20 years. So plants that are coming up for re-licensing would, if denied, maybe have their lives shortened by 20 years.

-Ben Adler, Mother Jones

>Sen. Sanders knows there are lots of reasons why nuclear power is a bad idea. Whether it’s the exceptional destructiveness of uranium mining, the fact that there’s no good way to store nuclear waste or the lingering risk of a tragedy like Fukushima or Chernobyl in the US, the truth is: nuclear power is a cure worse than the disease. Safer, cleaner energy sources like wind and solar will help us meet America’s energy needs while protecting the health of our people and combatting the threat of climate change.

-Senator Sanders' office

",Chartis,e8cat76,SandersForPresident
"Good governance ensures an equitable society because of the [benefits that limiting harm fosters.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ)  

The government is mandated to regulate commerce and is already doing do. A government of the people, by the people, and for the people means a system that works for all of us, not just a few.    

Trump's TCJA costs [$9.5 trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/reports/53884-apb2019.pdf) over 10 years.  83% of which [goes to benefit the 1%](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/18/16791174/republican-tax-bill-congress-conference-tax-policy-center). 


Divided by the [97,600,000](https://www.fool.com/taxes/2017/03/14/how-much-does-the-average-american-pay-in-taxes.aspx) taxpaying members of the 99% (minus the $1,671/y that helps fund accessible programs), that results in an average $6,373/y per person being transferred to the 1%. A tithe of **$17.46 being paid every day** of the year by workers to those making [$719,000](https://www.ssa.gov/cgi-bin/netcomp.cgi?year=2017) or more. All the while:  

&nbsp;  

>44% of adults could not cover an emergency expense costing $400. 

>The policies pursued over the past year seem deliberately designed to remove basic protections from the poorest, punish those who are not in employment, and make even basic health care into a privilege to be earned rather than a right of citizenship. This bodes ill for for society as a whole.

>The persistence of extreme poverty is a political choice made by those in power. 

---

>* Stop irrationally demonizing taxation and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[Philip Alston](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E): UN Report on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights, June 22^nd 2018 | [Full Report](http://undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1)   

&nbsp;    

And worldwide it's even worse:  

[148,200 individuals have personal assets of over $50 million.](https://i.imgur.com/PDpDwLp.png) In total they own ~$31 trillion, 11% of global wealth is owned by a group that could fit inside a stadium.  

[$30 trillion is illegally hidden](https://gabriel-zucman.eu/files/AJZ2017b.pdf) resulting in trillions worth of taxes stolen from the public per year, a theft which is several times what's needed today to [effectively address climate change.](http://unionsforenergydemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/sternreview_report_complete.pdf)  

[The world's 2200 billionaires have 20% more wealth than 1/2 of Humanity combined.](https://static.poder360.com.br/2017/11/global-wealth-report-2017-en.pdf)    

>Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

>To fight today’s extreme inequality, we must strengthen the coalition of progressive democrats and challenge the global oligarchy.  

-Bernie Sanders: [A World for All of Us, Not Just the Billionaires](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)  


---  

&nbsp;  


For example UBI: It doesn't directly create wealth. [Money is made by the treasury when an issuing government authorizes a budget.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/e80lj35/) That enables production of the currency by underutilized workers, resources, & production capacity. If there is less production and more purchasers the supply becomes limited and inflation occurs. Tying UBI to madated corporate leases of publicly owned robotics & softawre automation used for commerce would work, as would a federal job guarantee:  



>The program pays a uniform wage of $15/h, for both part-time & full-time work... It also offers basic healthcare through and expansion of Medicare, as well as other basic benefits such as childcare—effectively establishing a minimum benefits pack.  


>The PSE program is designed to ensure that all employers pay fair (living) wages, but without competing for employees or displacing private sector undertakings.  


>The design targets job creation for workers with lower skills and education—since they have high unemployment & underemployment. PSE participation for workers with greater education and skills will be transitional until conditions improve... when labor markets are tight, employers will recruit workers out of the PSE program.  


>By design, employment in the PSE program will move in a countercyclical pattern—growing in downturns and shrinking in recoveries as workers are pulled into the private sector. This helps to stabilize economic activity and household incomes. Economists call this an automatic stabilizer. The government’s budget will also move in a countercyclical manner as spending on the program cycles with the economy. This too helps to smooth cyclical fluctuations.  


>We also see the advantages of decentralizing administration to the community level. Since the goal is to create jobs in every community, and to create projects that are beneficial to every community, it makes sense to involve the local communities in the projects from the proposal stage through to implementation, administration, & evaluation. We would allow state and local governments as well as registered nongovernmental, not-for-profits to putforth proposals.  


>We expect that most of the jobs created will provide public services in nonprofit community organizations, public schools, and state & local governments. PSE workers could be used for very small public works projects (installing  playground equipment), simple maintenance  of  infrastructure  (planting vegetation as screening), and environmental retrofitting (adding insulation to housing in low-income neighborhoods or to community  buildings). A number of proposals for creation of workers’ cooperatives could be solicited. 


>Proposals can be solicited for apprenticeship programs that would train PSE workers for skilled employment outside the program after a term.  


>Scaling up to a national program that might employ 15 million workers will take time. The program will probably be phased in over a period of several years, both in terms of the numbers employed and the wages & benefits paid.  

>There are approximately 15 million potential workers who would be likely to join the program.   

>* 1 full-time worker could lift a family of up to 5 out of poverty
>* 1 full-time & 1 part-time worker, a family of 8 could rise out of poverty. 
>* In 2016, nearly 7.5 million people in families with a full-time worker lived in poverty. 
>* 9.5 million children would be lifted out of poverty. 
>* The average income gap of the 8 million families living in poverty in 2016 was $10,505—which is less than what a half-time job in the PSE would pay. 
>* Direct spending on the program is just below 2.5% of GDP per year. (Excluding increases in tax revenue due to economic growth as well as potential savings on a wide range of federal, state, and local programs that are targeted to low-income households. In 2015 for example, the federal government spent  $104  billion  on  food and nutritional service programs.)  

---

TL;DR:  

* It's decentralized to ensure that it serves workers as well as the communities in which they live.  
* The program pays $15/h plus benefits, establishing a nationwide effective minimum compensation level.  
* It does not compete with private employers, beyond setting minimum labor standards.  
* Employment in the program moves countercyclically, against business cycle swings, helping to stabilize consumption, output, income, and employment.  
* In cyclical upswings, private employers recruit workers out of the program; in downturns, the program absorbs workers shed by private employers.  
* Access to paid work eliminates most poverty, making it easier to deal with the poverty that remains.  

-Selected highlights from [policy note](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/pn_18_2.pdf)  

-[Full Report](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf)
",Chartis,e8bdimf,SandersForPresident
"Fiat money is simply a contract between the government and the public, and has no natural value of any kind.

The systems that lead to massive wealth accumulation are mostly a product of public policy: monetary policy, tax policy, etc. IMHO these policies should be tuned and tweaked to prevent massive wealth and income inequality. You may believe the exact opposite, but in either case, these are both merely ideological prescriptions.

It's impossible for anyone to truly ""own"" money in the sense that you seem to think they do, because the value of money is subordinate to, and a product of, government power. In a democracy, government power should be an expression of the popular will, and therefore wealth accumulation should only proceed as far as the public approves of it.",pseudointel_forum,e8c2bhs,SandersForPresident
"> Why are wealthy people, (many of whom are self made business people who make large contributions to the economy and philanthropic interests), entitled to distribute their earnings equally to people who didn't put in the work to create businesses?

Because they took the labor of people under duress (threat of starvation and homelessness) and paid them less than the value of the labor to get the profits that made them rich. The relationship of employer and employed is skewed due to demographics and institutional reasons. There are more people looking for jobs than there are jobs so employers have an advantage, employers also have the advantage of capital which historically was accumulated over generational wealth, that ultimately originated in things like slavery and feudalism. 

You can't rely on outliers of ""self-made"" men and women to make your point. You need to look at the 'average' 1% and see where their wealth ultimately came from. 

The last time employees had leverage over their employers was immediately after the Black Death, or in early colonial settlements, where labor was in high demand but those to perform that labor were not. Unions helped to improve the leverage employees had but never reached a point where employers were concerned as much as an employee is concerned that they will be homeless or without food.",cos1ne,e8bia0p,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #8. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8b3gom,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8bpbxr,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8bx12a,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8c7wfn,SandersForPresident
">I don’t want to be president.  

-[Michelle](https://www.politifact.com/facebook-fact-checks/statements/2018/oct/03/viral-image/no-michelle-obama-isnt-running-office-2020/)",Chartis,e8bpre2,SandersForPresident
Donate or textbank (app can be installed on a computer). Also email people you personally know.,Chartis,e8bdu3v,SandersForPresident
"Encourage young people online to vote, atleast from my own personal experiences too many people our age are covered in too much cynicism to go vote in the midterms.",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8burrq,SandersForPresident
It's so laughable. Social safety nets suddenly means collectivism... I hate politics and the stupid smears that come with it ,AssCrackBanditHunter,e8bqlu5,SandersForPresident
You're right. Social democracy is a fine blend of socialism and capitalism. Nobody is claiming that Scandinavia isn't capitalist; they have some of the highest start-up rates in the world.,norway_is_awesome,e8bc7qp,SandersForPresident
"It is in my opinion, but market socialism could be an intermediary to full on global economic planning :) ",pomcq,e8c89i8,SandersForPresident
">Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)   ",Chartis,e8ax3ww,SandersForPresident
Thank you for quoting Rosa Luxemburg,UncleAnouche,e8bky6p,SandersForPresident
"Folks should change up your language. 

""Mixed economy"" vs. ""Socialism"". ",thedeepestsouth,e8bnunt,SandersForPresident
"The past and present are also socialist in some ways (e.g. public education, Medicare, Social Security, the fire department).  I think the future is some kind of hybrid economy, just as it's always been.  It might be a different kind of hybrid economy, and I'm hoping it has a bit more socialism in places where it could do a lot of good (such as the part of the economy that deals with health insurance).",elihu,e8chd38,SandersForPresident
"As long as you don't tell me the future is socialism...that shit won't work. Democratic Socialism, is still socialism. Why don't we settle on Social Democrat?",puroloco,e8bgyug,SandersForPresident
">The future is socialist in some way and we all need to know this and embrace it.

No. No, it is most definitely not. Especially not in the United States. ",vanillathunder420,e8cal4q,SandersForPresident
"Of course she knows what a market is, she's a rather well known expert on the topic.  She's saying she believes in the power of market forces to run the economy better than a command economy... which is a reasonable belief.  That's what capitalism vs socialism boils down to.  

Now, she's also been very clear about the need to properly regulate private markets, and has been very good at that very thing.  So she's not anything like a libertarian.  She has a nuanced, reasonable view.",JaronK,e8bhc3c,SandersForPresident
I hadnt even thought of that. that's a pretty heavy duty coffin nail IMO.,chazzer20mystic,e8b28cp,SandersForPresident
Oh jeez. That is brutal.,abudabu,e8axcvq,SandersForPresident
"When did she make a big deal of it?

No right wing sources allowed.",dbv,e8c3z2k,SandersForPresident
Thank you for putting that in quotes. How the hell someone finds out they are such a low percentage of a demographic and thinks they can identify as that is beyond me. ,STFUandL2P,e8b7oap,SandersForPresident
Probably a reference to the fact that Warren never endorsed Sanders.,stefanboltzmann,e8auwkz,SandersForPresident
This article explains: https://benjaminstudebaker.com/2018/10/23/the-decline-and-fall-of-elizabeth-warren/,abudabu,e8d2pm3,SandersForPresident
"Refused to run against Clinton despite howls from her base begging her to do so. She gave no answer. It's clear she did what she was told like all the other establishment pols - get out of Mother's way. Then, she refused to endorse Bernie. I will never trust her after that.",abudabu,e8axgaf,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8aw0et,SandersForPresident
"Don't engage the trolls. Remember, people are here to divide us. Senator Warren is our ally.",MCPtz,e8ays5e,SandersForPresident
"""When the world needed her most, she vanished""",robotzor,e8b64dn,SandersForPresident
"Didn't endorse Sanders, and got into bed with that cheating criminal hag, clinton.
",flickerkuu,e8axruy,SandersForPresident
"Hi `flickerkuu`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9qp7nl/-/e8axqwl/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e8b6kol,SandersForPresident
"The truth is that, for Socialists, Warren is an undesirable candidate.  

Let's imagine that being anti-war is the core of your moral, ethical, and political views.  Now imagine a candidate said ""I'm a warmonger, to my bones!"". No matter how much other alignment there is between you and that candidate you will never love that candidate.

If Warren is nominated I'll vote for her and put a sign in my yard.  If she refuses corporate money I'll even donate to her campaign.  But for me it would definitely be a ""lesser of two evils"" vote.  A Democrat who delusionally believes that the rabid dog of Capitalism can be controlled is better than a Republican who longs to take off the muzzle; but only because she will delay the next tragedy Capitalism will induce by a few years.",ManlyBeardface,e8c76ns,SandersForPresident
"I'm glad I'm not the only one. I would be utterly ecstatic to have either of them in the White House. Also, I don't think it's fair to call Warren a neoliberal.",klubsanwich,e8bxpfy,SandersForPresident
"I agree with the parent commenter, but I can see this logic too. Really I think it just depends what you define as a ""consolation prize"". I'd not say it's an ""at least we have this"" if Hillary won, THAT would've been ""at least we have this"" and she isn't ANY sort of prize IMO. A consolation prize is a legitimately good reward in its own right, just not as good. It's less of a compromize between good and bad, and more of a compromize between good and alright.",Wiebejamin,e8cclqj,SandersForPresident
"She's not a neoliberal because she believes the problem is corporations not being sufficiently regulated. Neoliberals believe in little to no regulation of corporations as well as free trade, Warren is opposed to free trade, privatization, and a lack of regulation.

She has in fact voted against the party, on some votes her Sanders and I think Merkley were the only ones to vote against the party. For example, there was a proposal to derregulate pharma last year, the cures bill, she was one of a handful of people who voted against it.

She also blocked several of Obama's most corporate nominees and was a leading opponent of the TPP for literally years.

Her biggest issue from a philosphical standpoint is a belief in adequate regulation more than popular will. So she emphasizes good policy over public opinion. That was the point of this entire article.

She's also not as good on foreign policy as Sanders. It's less clear how she views military spending as well.",The_Popular_Populist,e8b17fm,SandersForPresident
"Elizabeth Warren is not a coward in the slightest, and has gone against the grain many times in favor of stronger, better regulations on corporate markets.  That makes her clearly not a neoliberal.  

Why would you claim such a thing?",JaronK,e8bhf2n,SandersForPresident
I literally checked your account age. This is exactly the type of comment that trolls made in 2016. Who the fuck actually believes Warren is a neoliberal..,grayemansam,e8byvkq,SandersForPresident
"She totally is.
",flickerkuu,e8axu7x,SandersForPresident
"I'd work hard and volunteer for both, particularly Bernie, but I'd definitely fight for Warren too.  Gabbard too if she ran instead.  It's basically every other option though that I'd be pretty much just there to show up to vote and talk amongst friends about why a corporate Democrat is still a better option than Trump.  I really don't look forward to that scenario.",TrippleTonyHawk,e8c0280,SandersForPresident
"I understand splitting the vote can be an issue, but that is what the Primary process is for - vote for who you like without regret. If Sanders runs, I'll vote for him. If he doesn't win, I'll vote for the Democratic nominee. ",archetype1,e8bbung,SandersForPresident
What if Warren believes this is her one chance to run for President? Her ambition may outweigh the progressive agenda.,pablonieve,e8bybku,SandersForPresident
There's a primary between Sanders and Warren? News to me.,kjturner,e8bynx4,SandersForPresident
"When the primary is based on demonizing the ""less pure"" Democrats it doesn't fare well for the left.",TheJrod71,e8ccx3a,SandersForPresident
"I'm just tired of the GOP being in charge because we keep shooting ourselves in the foot. Having said that, I didn't vote for Hilary and I regret it. Who do you think Bernie voted for? 

The GOP is just fine with democrats and progressives not voting for democrats. 

On the spectrum of conservative to progressive, Warren is absolutely in the progressive camp. As far as I'm concerned, those in here trying to get people to hate Warren, are GOP shills. It's exactly what the GOP wants to happen.  ",SgtHappyPants,e8b499z,SandersForPresident
Any Bernie supporter who didn't vote for Clinton is part of why we have trump today.  Those folks can fuck right off.,dbv,e8b7k6n,SandersForPresident
"Lemme Guess, you are one of those people who didn't listen to Bernie when he said that the best option was Clinton.

No one is saying they are entitled.  But if given the choice between Trump and Clinton and you didn't vote Clinton, sorry to say this, you are not a Bernie supporter.",Tiels_Fishin_Packers,e8b9fe3,SandersForPresident
Pelosi's been incredibly effective given the bad bargaining position she's got.  What else would you expect her to do?,JaronK,e8bhld2,SandersForPresident
"I feel ya. But I'm not sure that any side has ever agreed on one candidate at any point. However, trolls aside, I do think there are at least two major factions on the left that are agreeing on major points. (Single Payer for example) 
",SgtHappyPants,e8csrxg,SandersForPresident
"Wrong.  

I followed the whole thing closely.

Go research.",anonymous_being,e8c2871,SandersForPresident
"She comes from academia and it definitely shows. I first got introduced to her back in the 2006 documentary "" Maxed Out: Hard Times, Easy Credit and the Era of Predatory Lenders "" when she was still in Harvard Law and she came off as a professor and consumer advocate. Not a polished and slick politician. I highly recommend that documentary by the way. It's really easy to find online. ",ThundaTed,e8bg18e,SandersForPresident
Worse than that; don't bash the DNC. I think that sub is full of corporate tool Dems.,aeternitatisdaedalus,e8bh6se,SandersForPresident
[https://youtu.be/uZpAA\_wgsk0](https://youtu.be/uZpAA_wgsk0),ExiledSenpai,e8ct8su,SandersForPresident
"I see what you’re doing. Don’t underestimate Warren like folks underestimated Trump the 1st time around. 

By far, Sanders stands the best chance out of any other politician to beat Trump because he can energize the electorate better than any other politician in the game so far. Warren can do the same, but on a smaller scale. But in a post-Kavanaugh world, she can galvanize women to her side, far better than Clinton ever could. That, and her record of being a consumer advocate can push her past Trump. 

Anyone else? Another 4 years of Trump guaranteed. ",BigTroubleMan80,e8cl8uu,SandersForPresident
"Not a Trump supporter (or Clinton for the matter, in fact although I didn't like him much, I'd have preferred an illegal 3rd Obama term), but I'd vote for Sanders, any other candidate from the Dems & I'm voting 3rd party. ",Andre4kthegreengiant,e8ch6rx,SandersForPresident
"I hope these polls are right, but I wouldn't hesitate to vote for Warren vs almost any one of the other corporate whores surely to populate the sideshow circus that will be the 2020 Democratic party primary.",cakeyogi,e8c0rrp,SandersForPresident
"visions can't remove supreme court justices, only the passing of time can. It will be another 10-15 years before a progressive can have a real impact without being stonewalled by a corrupt supreme court. The 2020 election will be about repairing the damage Trump has done to the US and that alone will need about 2 terms.",Zincoshine_2018,e8az4jo,SandersForPresident
OMG!! You found me out! Yes I have a different opinion than you. The irony is that you didn't see this as a joke. You guys are so easy...,fladawgs,e8e8uig,SandersForPresident
"Wind Turbines have just as much wildlife killing, and so does solar. On top of that, solar is extremely dangerous to produce, and toxic as hell. Wind uses oil to lubricate their parts, still making us reliable on oil. Nuclear is the safer option out of the three. The real solution is geothermal energy, but there aren't a lot of places this is viable. Water energy is another one, but also has a host of issues. The truth is, there is no ""clean"" source of viable energy right now, bit nuclear is the safest option. Chernobyl and Fukushima shouldn't even be brought up as a defense to oppose nuclear. Reactor 4 was the only one that melted down, and the other 3 were being used perfectly as far as early 2000s in Chernobyl. Fukushima was a result of cutting corners and a huge seismic event, where it got hit by both an earthquake and a tsunami. There weren't even any deaths directly related to the meltdowns, just from the resulting panic and excavation because most humans think with their monkey brains and react dimly in emergency situations. ",IGNOREMETHATSFINETOO,e8cb90h,SandersForPresident
"I would like to change my question slightly while I go though all this information, if that's okay, and ask about specifically self made wealth. People who started from nothing, often in disadvantaged situations, who put in untold amounts of work and overcame vast amounts of adversity to amass some level of success. It seems to me to be a disservice to the people who earn their wealth (which I understand to be a majority of wealthy individuals, but I could be totally wrong) and to those in lower financial classes to forcibly disseminate that money. Wouldn't it result in the erosion of incentives for innovation and creation? ",jbarkleyisdead,e8be1uw,SandersForPresident
"I have read reports that up to 62% of billionaires in the U.S. are self made rather than inherited. I believe the shift toward self made wealth has been happening for some time. Also, in today's world, the barrier to entry of financial success is the lowest it has ever been. I'm just not sure why a person who worked hard and accumulated wealth is responsible for the financial situations of over 300 million Americans. Is there any examples of this model being more successful for an entire nation?",jbarkleyisdead,e8bks99,SandersForPresident
But what about Joe,atheosuede,e8bxcrm,SandersForPresident
I *wish* Bernie didn't believe in markets,pomcq,e8c87v7,SandersForPresident
The Military is the most socialist program in existence,s-to-the-am,e8c498z,SandersForPresident
A lot of people claim that Scandinavia is socialist.,PM_ME_IU_NUDES,e8c2jes,SandersForPresident
"I belive he's referencing something like an Anarcho-Syndicist society, or a brand of socialism akin to it where there are still markets. Capitalism =/= markets my friend. A social democracy is a public safety net, with capitalism still as the underlying system. Are the means of production owned by the workers? Then it's not socialist. Scandanavia isn't a blend of socialism, it's just basic welfare.",kCchief207,e8btu06,SandersForPresident
"> Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.

When thinking of social systems and power, I've noticed my view of humans, in groups, has become almost completely distinct from my view of humans, individually.

For example, when trying to make predictions about the level of corruption of an institution, once the system reaches a certain size, information about the individuals within the system becomes mostly irrelevant. The system size is probably more important than I've been able to account for, but once you get to large enough numbers (probably more than a few dozen), most intuitions about individual human behavior are out the window. Such systems tend to diminish or completely negate the influence of individuals.

I think this is related to how certain environments, namely poorly designed social systems that concentrate power, can corrupt individuals. Even if a state actor that is otherwise honest and ethical is found to be operating within these types of systems, they are required to compromise themselves (usually quite severely) to operate effectively.  When the individual resists compromising themselves, they are excluded from that system (they initially avoided any participation, or were pushed once they became a member of the system), making that system *selective of compromised (or less ethical) individuals* (this is one of the feedback loops corrupted institutions create).

It is not that ""All [Anyone] Are Bastards"" (although a useful heuristic to avoid dangerous people); it is that certain environments have the potential, and given enough time, inevitably will, turn even the most upstanding of people into enablers of dangerous tyrants, or worse, the dangerous tyrants themselves.",Broccolis_of_Reddit,e8b6xn5,SandersForPresident
I hate to break it to you but those aren’t socialist. This programs are social democratic. ,Cheechster4,e8ctu8x,SandersForPresident
"The future has to be socialism or we will die. Literally. Most american's don't know much about socialism because of the 2 red scares.   
Yes Democratic Socialism is socialism. I say socialism in some way because we could have anacho-communist, confederalism, radical green socialism etc. There are many different flavors but all use socialism (work place democracy or worker owned automation or other democratic ideas)   


If you want an example of an interesting place using these theories look at [Rojava](https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Democratic_Federation_of_Northern_Syria)  


One reason we can't just settle for social democracy is that it slides back into neo-liberal capaitalism or fascism. Capitalism has inherent contraditions that create inequality faster and faster. There is also exploitation, which is how capitalists steal labor from workers. This is immoral. There is good information in the r/socialism boards and i would recommend going there to read the side panel, or go to r/Socialism_101 or r/Anarchy101. Or you can ask me if you actually want to know. ",Cheechster4,e8bhwmf,SandersForPresident
"It was a joke. I have a Ph.D. in economics and I get a kick out of politicians using economic jargon in factually incorrect ways. 

For instance, there is nothing in socialism that would preclude one from believing in markets. Part of this confusion stems from everyone using the POLSCI catch-all term of *socialism* instead of the more economically relevant term of *market socialism* which I would feel would be less confusing for people. There is such a thing as *non-market socailism* but I honestly don't think any politician has legitimately run on that platform since like... well forever.  

Socialism is also not a command economy, communism is. To be fair the two are similar enough that even some economist get them mixed up.

I love Mrs. Warren and a lot of what she stands for and did not intend for my comment to be disparaging toward her in any way. I appreciate the insight and I apologize for not making my joke more readily apparent. ",SLowfalls,e8bmlol,SandersForPresident
"But capitalism and socialism have little to do with price negotiations and delivery of goods (market), but instead who owns and gets the lions share of the returns (capitalists or owner-workers).

If I trade with a co-op, would you view that as capitalism?  Could easily be viewed as socialism",Fat_Maestro,e8ca9eq,SandersForPresident
"""She has a nuanced, reasonable view."" is a big red flag to me because it's an attempt to characterize Warren's policy without any substantive support. What if a ""nuanced"" view isn't good? Who gets to decide what's ""reasonable?""

You could have tons of socialist institutions and features in your economy without having a ""command economy."" You could have public schools, public roads, publicly run utilities, state-run healthcare, state-owned profit-making enterprises (Norway has 74), a sovereign wealth fund, guaranteed child-care, worker representation on company boards, worker owned co-ops, the list goes on.

The best thing about markets is that they have prices, and prices are really signals about supply and demand. Having a market for goods and services is perfectly compatible with an otherwise socialist economy. For instance, 80% of all assets could be owned by a state-controlled sovereign wealth fund, but firms owned by the state could still behave like private firms and compete in the market for customers.",pseudointel_forum,e8bzy24,SandersForPresident
Taking an entire DNA test to respond to Trump is not making a big deal out of it?,BopTheDrass,e8c8a1v,SandersForPresident
"""and thinks they can use that to claim benefits as a disadvantaged minority""

",abudabu,e8d2miz,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8bc1f5,SandersForPresident
You mean how tribes themselves consider indigenous heritage? GTFO with your shit. Any amount of native blood makes you a native in their eyes. All you have to do is look up the facts.,alagusis,e8ccgwk,SandersForPresident
Her endorsement probably would have won him  Massachusetts ,jt25617,e8avr6i,SandersForPresident
"Thanks for this. Was ambivalent when I started reading, was pissed off when I finished. It's gotta be Bernie.",aa1607,e8ganm4,SandersForPresident
"Exactly, I won't either. She's dead to me.
",flickerkuu,e8axt6e,SandersForPresident
I would replace Clintons with the Establishment and Conservative democrats. ,Cheechster4,e8awbuk,SandersForPresident
"> Silent Liz

I see we're using the 60-year-old Facebook mom vernacular.",linkseyi,e8b1mmm,SandersForPresident
Silent Liz? Are we acting like Trump now? Or are we full on Russian bots? Warren is a great progressive senator and if you like Bernie you should like her too. ,NickRick,e8bmgzb,SandersForPresident
We really going to resort to Trump-level name-calling now?  I get the right using it since it panders to their constituents' level of political savvy.  Figured (hoped) we were better than that.,BigRedTed,e8azo7a,SandersForPresident
Cut it out with the Trump namecalling shit. Why do I find no irony in seeing a comment like this in a thread designed to make the left wing eat their own kind? You guys are getting played. ,huxtiblejones,e8b1f6a,SandersForPresident
"If she runs against Bernie, when she didn't run against Clinton, she is not an ally. It's all up to her.",BopTheDrass,e8b1mi0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ba4xq,SandersForPresident
At best she's an ally of convenience IMO,AvinashTyagi1,e8azab2,SandersForPresident
"What is all this *people are here to divide us* nonsense? We are **already** divided! Did I fall asleep while we united with the establishment left?

What happened to this sub :(",robotzor,e8b6brr,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8b1inl,SandersForPresident
"""but i believe Bernie can save the world""",aa1607,e8bda4f,SandersForPresident
"When the democratic establishment in a recent Politco article says they'd prefer anyone but Bernie in 2020, they know that Warren can be pressured to get in line.

It's not even just that Warren is a capitalist. Ralph Nader calls himself a capitalist and yet he is to the left of Bernie on many issues (especially foreign policy). And I am saying this as a socialist.

Warren is like a bridge from the democratic establishment to the progressive insurgency. She would be a fantastic choice to water down progressive reforms. I really don't trust her to fight the establishment as part of a left-ist movement, but I do think she could pass a few small victories and not be a complete neoliberal like Obama or Clinton.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dq4gl,SandersForPresident
"It's not so much lesser of two evils though in my opinion. From a Socialist perspective (I wouldn't label myself a Socialist) I would imagine that it is more voting for a solution that doesn't deal with the underlying cause. Warren tries to create more protections for the people from the negative effects of Capitalism (the rabid dog), a necessity in her mind. So having her in office is not having an evil, she is moving us away from laissez faire capitalism, but there is a better alternative in Bernie.",TheJrod71,e8ccn2d,SandersForPresident
"Warren would be an incredible candidate and has my total support if Bernie doesn't run.  I think Bernie has all of the numbers but age in his favor, which makes me think he would overall be the better candidate, but the Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act is a legislative dream come true for me and I'd work my ass off for Warren too.  Of course Warren isn't a neoliberal, that's absurd and laughable.  She's the person that introduced me to the concept of income inequality and the issues with Citizenxs United.",TrippleTonyHawk,e8bzixz,SandersForPresident
I dont view that as a bad thing though. The rise of Trump has made me much less trusting of popular will than i used to be,nyanlol,e8c1al3,SandersForPresident
"Because she sided with the Clinton machine in the 2018 primaries. She had an opportunity to endorse a candidate running a VERY close race in her state, a candidate running on the same platform she supposedly champions, and her silence was deafening.

She chose to protect her career rather than support a real change agent candidate and I will never forgive her. She chose silence when “her” Native American’s we’re suffering at Standing Rock.

She likes to be tough when the cameras are on her, she wants to be the liberal darling that the media loves, but where the rubber meets the road...she’s unsurprisingly absent. We don’t need more politicians who are working within the rigged system like her, we need bad asses who will break that system. She hasn’t. She won’t.",LiquidDreamtime,e8biqrb,SandersForPresident
"Oh no, I’ve been caught. I created an account 2 yrs ago and have spent pretty much every day since commenting on various subs of all different genres just for this rare opportunity to bash a politician I hate.",LiquidDreamtime,e8c3eyq,SandersForPresident
"There are things that I am willing to critique Warren on (some came up in this thread, like her decision not to endorse Bernie or speak out against DAPL), but selfish ambition certainly isn't one of them.  I could potentially see both of them running and attending some debates, and then whichever looks the weakest dipping out and endorsing the other candidate if not before Iowa at least before Super Tuesday.  We'll see though, it'll probably just be one of them.",TrippleTonyHawk,e8c0cvp,SandersForPresident
I say demonizing is a little too much. I've seen people state their opinions on why they aren't voting for her. Legitimate reasons.,Rogscope,e8ckmoz,SandersForPresident
Demonizing? Seriously? We're talking about which candidate is better for the progressive movement.,IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dshw7,SandersForPresident
"> I'm just tired of the DNC Establishment being in charge because we keep shooting ourselves in the foot. 

See how it works both ways? We are divided. The vast majority of independents are staying home, while the majority opinion in the country falls in line with progressive policies. We kept doing this, passing the baton back and forth every 8 years, and Trump became a thing. ""Fall in line"" mentality will just lead to MegaTrump 2: Trump Harder as more independents, center-rights and center-lefts just stay home.",robotzor,e8b6tot,SandersForPresident
"
>I'm just tired of the GOP being in charge because we keep shooting ourselves in the foot. Having said that, I didn't vote for Hilary and I regret it. Who do you think Bernie voted for? 

Thank you for some sanity.",grayemansam,e8c01j1,SandersForPresident
">I'm just tired of the GOP being in charge

Because the democratic party sucks and needs to reform to win elections. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dsmjt,SandersForPresident
"How dare they not vote for someone they disagree with in a democracy, Clinton and the DNC are the real reasons we're stuck with Trump.",Dovahkiff,e8btsiw,SandersForPresident
"We have Trump today because the democratic party abandoned the working class and represent corporate interests.

If we have two parties which represent corporate interests, of course the right-wing party which completely sells out to corporate interests will do better.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dszuw,SandersForPresident
Are you saying my vote didn't matter then?,Zakatikus,e8bbuel,SandersForPresident
I didn’t vote for either of them.,4ArthurDent2,e8b9j1n,SandersForPresident
[I did.](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/elizabeth-warren-endorse-clinton-rachel-maddow-show-n589236) Looks to me like she endorsed Hillary after the final primary.,pablonieve,e8c2gpr,SandersForPresident
"I first heard of her when she started showing up on the Daily Show with Jon Stewart as a consumer advocate. You could tell, even back then, that she cared a lot but was very awkward when in the lime light. ",macwelsh007,e8bh3lo,SandersForPresident
I think you're right,Fat_Maestro,e8cav0c,SandersForPresident
"They can be impeached and their influence lessened by adding more justices as well as organically by public pressure:  

>Where the courts do respond. The courts don't live in a bubble... energized people, young people all over this country... When people become mobilized, when... millions of people begin to stand up and fight back: we bring about change...  

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=1273)",Chartis,e8b08ve,SandersForPresident
"Lol. Not really, just pointing out a stupid and idiotic attempt at trolling that makes sense given your Reddit activity.",davidsthomas94,e8e95ym,SandersForPresident
">Wind Turbines have just as much wildlife killing.  

That's incorrect: [Daily inspections of 20 farms with over 250 turbines 2005-2008 found less than 600 dead birds.](https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1365-2664.2011.02054.x)  

[For every bird killed by wind turbines nuclear & fossil fuel plants killed over 2,100 birds.](https://ideas.repec.org/a/eee/enepol/v37y2009i6p2241-2248.html)  

>Nuclear is the safer option out of the three... Chernobyl and Fukushima shouldn't even be brought up as a defense to oppose nuclear. 

I disagree, they happened and resulted in massive death, pain, & irreparable harm on top of other events like [Three Mile Island](https://i.imgur.com/ChKiRQG.png) and of course uranium mining.",Chartis,e8cc66o,SandersForPresident
Citizens are wealthy because of [the operations of the state](https://voxeu.org/article/income-redistribution-through-taxes-and-transfers/) and its populous. Fair refs are the will of the people.,Chartis,e8be9vz,SandersForPresident
"I have a hard time believing the work of a single man to be worth 10,000 more than the average worker.

I have hard time believing that someone like Jeff Bezos can become successful without the assistance of thousands of workers who all earn less than 1% than he does. 


I'm okay with people earning more than others, i'm not okay when the difference is in the order of 1000s of times more.

",Castro2man,e8bp25i,SandersForPresident
">Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people who may or may not vote...](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is [most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)   ",Chartis,e8bxiqa,SandersForPresident
"Joe's a scumbag in many ways:

""The younger generation now tells me how tough things are. Give me a break. No, no, I have no empathy for it. Give me a break.""

Dude's filthy rich and completely out of touch with the struggles of young people and poor people.",pseudointel_forum,e8c2zxj,SandersForPresident
"Why? Are markets bad? 

Markets are even an integral part of socialism. ",Magsays,e8cujvr,SandersForPresident
"It's more nationalist than anything. While theoretically an institution meant to equally protect all people from various dangers could be  socialist, that is not what most modern militaries are.",idrequired220,e8cfgzd,SandersForPresident
"Social democracy goes beyond the public safety net. In Norway, the state owns at least 50% of the stocks on the national stock exchange. The largest dairy company is 100% owned by the state and also serves as the market regulator; the same applies for the largest meat company. The agricultural subsidies are so vast that the traditional farmer's party is aligned with the left, as opposed to what is the case in most other countries.

The state owns a huge share of the means of production, and the political right in Norway is always trying to reduce this. What's interesting, though, is that even the far-right Norwegian political party would ultimately describe themselves as social democratic.",norway_is_awesome,e8bw9g8,SandersForPresident
"If (1) the means of production are owned by the government, and (2) the government is democratic, then isn't this an example of socialism? 

There are lots of state owned enterprises in Norway, and the market leading firm in many sectors of the economy is a state owned firm. This goes well beyond mere ""basic welfare."" 

SOEs in Norway are worth 87.9% of Norway's GDP, while SOEs in the US are worth 0.4% of US GDP. Norway has a radically different economy from the US, and is in fact significantly more socialist.

http://mattbruenig.com/2017/07/28/nordic-socialism-is-realer-than-you-think/

https://soundcloud.com/ebruenig/nordic-socialism-is-really-real",pseudointel_forum,e8byxj8,SandersForPresident
"Yes. Corruption is a global mental health epidemic and should be treated as such. The human condition is between short sighted reactionary emotion that tears down for plunder, or [visionary reason that works collaboratively in building what's needed.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvskMHn0sqQ) People can be powerful, and thus dark. But tying vested interests to public interests through transparent accountability allows for the other things humans do, the awesome one. We must foster empowerment & the wise use of our power.",Chartis,e8b7hj9,SandersForPresident
"The line between socialist and social democrat is more blurry than you think.

For example, Rosa Luxembourg called herself a socialist and social democrat. The bolsheviks called themselves social democrats.

In fact, every socialist I know is a social democrat in that they support policies which restrict capitalism. But they don't want to stop there. They want to make the economic system more democratic.

If you look at most social democratic countries, they have a strong socialist movement. In fact, I can't think of a single social democratic country which did not have a strong socialist movement.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dnn47,SandersForPresident
Full-blooded socialism likewise slides into authoritarianism. Rejecting explicit hierarchy invites the corruption of hidden hierarchy.,theivoryserf,e8bm7qh,SandersForPresident
">For instance, there is nothing in socialism that would preclude one from believing in markets.

Depends on what you believe the market will do and which form of socialism you are talking about.  If you're saying you believe in the power of markets to function well and benefit the people in a capitalist system when properly regulated (which is Warren's position), and you're specifically comparing yourself to a more socialist person who wants more of a command economy (not a complete command economy like communism, just more of one due to less trust in what the markets will do without that), then her statement makes a lot of sense.  I'm pretty sure that's her context.

But imagine we're on a similar page, even if I didn't get the joke.",JaronK,e8bswpv,SandersForPresident
"Marx used socialism and communism interchangeably, if you don't abolish value and the commodity form (ie, global economic planning) you still have the fundamental elements of capitalism. ",pomcq,e8c8f1t,SandersForPresident
">""She has a nuanced, reasonable view."" is a big red flag to me because it's an attempt to characterize Warren's policy without any substantive support. What if a ""nuanced"" view isn't good? Who gets to decide what's ""reasonable?""

Obviously, that's my opinion.  Have you listened to her speak on economic policy?  I've found her to be amazingly good on that topic.  I actually don't care for her other policy areas, but her economic understanding is what really draws me to her.  Now, not everyone has the same opinion of ""good"" and ""reasonable"", so I recommend you read her works or listen to her speaking on the topic and judge for yourself.

>You could have tons of socialist institutions and features in your economy without having a ""command economy."" You could have public schools, public roads, publicly run utilities, state-run healthcare, state-owned profit-making enterprises (Norway has 74), a sovereign wealth fund, guaranteed child-care, worker representation on company boards, worker owned co-ops, the list goes on.

Yes.  Did you not understand the context?  She's saying that the difference between herself and Sanders is that she has greater faith and belief in a well regulated but liberated economy, while he favors more of a command economy.  This is not a completely black and white binary... she's not a libertarian or neo-liberal and he's not a communist.  That's not what she's claiming.  She's talking about their relative places on the spectrum, and he is indeed more in favor of government command of the economy than she is, while she has more belief in the value of a liberated economy than he does.

>The best thing about markets is that they have prices, and prices are really signals about supply and demand. Having a market for goods and services is perfectly compatible with an otherwise socialist economy. For instance, 80% of all assets could be owned by a state-controlled sovereign wealth fund, but firms owned by the state could still behave like private firms and compete in the market for customers.

True but irrelevant to the point.",JaronK,e8c39ot,SandersForPresident
You’re kidding right? She has been mocked for making that stupid video of hers for the last week. She only fed it. No one was talking about Elizabeth Warren and this whole Pocahontas thing until she brought it back up and she is the butt of every joke now. She nuked her campaign before it ever started. ,STFUandL2P,e8bctlq,SandersForPresident
It was never a debate. A gross orange child mocked her and she stooped down to him. She won a playground fight by coming back to it a year after it started.,LetMyForbynGo,e8bd6yz,SandersForPresident
[Apparently the Cherokee didnt get your memo because they would like to disagree with you. ](http://time.com/5425427/cherokee-nation-responds-elizabeth-warrens-dna-test/) ,STFUandL2P,e8cu3rt,SandersForPresident
Remember when Bill Clinton showed up at polling stations in Mass and wreaked holy havoc with his security detail while people were trying to vote? That was fun. ,macwelsh007,e8b2u3j,SandersForPresident
It wouldn't have.,NickRick,e8bmdgp,SandersForPresident
I am now embarrassed to admit I wrote 2 emails and 1 letter begging Warren to run in 2016 before Bernie entered the race.,abudabu,e8gbehj,SandersForPresident
her and Bernie would be unstoppable on a ticket together. Don't write her off just yet.,afadedgiant,e8b3bim,SandersForPresident
"Please, your purity tests are tired. The GOP are afraid of Warren for a reason, and you are all too willing to help out the republicans by writing Warren off. ",SgtHappyPants,e8b5zuo,SandersForPresident
"Ooohh snap! Burn! Now do another Democratic potential presidential contender!

/s",ThundaTed,e8bazue,SandersForPresident
Only because you need a new boogeyman since the old one is no longer effective.,ThundaTed,e8bajao,SandersForPresident
or Republican president vernacular,KingsElite,e8cdkui,SandersForPresident
"For real. Fuck off with it. I'd happily vote Sanders over Warren 10 times out of 10, but I refuse to do the same garbage Trump does with the grade school name calling. ",wsoxfan1214,e8bfa75,SandersForPresident
"Nah we learned our lesson, sit on your high horse and carry that L or get down in the mud and fight for the W",HopeOverDope,e8b0rbe,SandersForPresident
"If Elizabeth Warren ran against the only person who could possibly defeat Trump, she is the one eating her own kind. It would do noting but split the progressive vote, leading to a corporatist stealing the primary who would subsequently give Trump a second term.

",BopTheDrass,e8b1w45,SandersForPresident
Trump name calling? Wtf..Facts are trump name calling now? This is the exact opposite. You are oblivious to reality or just plain ignorant.,Hotchicas1234,e8b2qxq,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8b1fa2,SandersForPresident
"That's some silly ""With us or against us"" mentality. She agrees with Bernie on like 95% of issues.",grayemansam,e8bztle,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8bavmh,SandersForPresident
"> Did I fall asleep while we united with the establishment left?

But...but...all those millennials who voted for Hillary after Bernie lost the nomination! /s",cos1ne,e8bh2v5,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8b1ovv,SandersForPresident
>[But Bernie believes we can save the world.](https://imgur.com/VnToxyd) ,Chartis,e8bdzkh,SandersForPresident
"Typically, I would not call action that doesn't address the cause of a problem a solution.

Her actions would reinforce the idea that Capitalism isn't a rabid dog, but a good boy who needs to go to obedience school (regulation).  If people continue to think that regulation is the solution to Capitalism, then we will just end up here again once the GOP or  their equivalent dismantles the regulations again.

That is the crux here, I think.  Since regulation will lead to some short term improvement and then to more deregulation and disaster (financial collapse, climate crisis, war), why should anyone be enthusiastic for a candidate who doesn't even grasp the problem?

All in all this is a dark timeline we are in.  I'll take the best I can get, but I don't think I can be happy about the harsh future that my child will face.",ManlyBeardface,e8cpxxy,SandersForPresident
"I agree, and it's not even the fault of the public really. Modern media (and not just the ""mainstream"" media either) is actively designed to put us all in our own bubbles. ",teh_hasay,e8c7oo3,SandersForPresident
"Have you considered that she simply chose what she felt was right?  She may agree with Sanders on many things, but she also worked closely with Clinton, and may have agreed with her on other things.  Perhaps she simply had an opinion you disagree with.

She has certainly put herself out there repeatedly, showing great courage and conviction.  Making one call you don't like and 10 calls you do does not make someone a villain or a coward.  And calling her absent when she's been very present in her chosen battleground (economic regulation) doesn't fit reality.  Where on earth are you getting your news?  She's working hard to fix the system and make it not rigged.  If you want to break the system, vote Trump.  If you want to fix it, vote Warren or Sanders.  If you want it to be tweaked slightly, that's Clinton.",JaronK,e8bjy53,SandersForPresident
"She was silent during the primaries because Bernie had already lost by that point. Even if he won massachussetts he would lose the Dem primary and all she would have accomplished is pissing off the future nominee. At that point it was widely assumed by everyone that Hillary would beat Trump...she wanted to be in the good graces of the President Hillary so she could get her favorite picks at Treasury or Commerce or w/e. 

&#x200B;

Obviously in hindsight this calculation is super wrong, but I understand why she did it. I probably would have done the same thing. ",hueylongsgiantdong,e8mp84k,SandersForPresident
"That may be what you are doing, but there is a very vocal group on here and Political_Revolution that still holds a grudge against anyone who didn't support Sanders and even just people that turned to support Hillary. It is not unfair to assert that a substantial group of people here are viewing the non-Bernie choices as necessary evils at best (demonizing them). I am basing this off of my experience throughout the election on here, IRL, and comments ITT.

",TheJrod71,e8ei7hj,SandersForPresident
It doesn't work both ways because the DNC isn't in charge and hasn't been for almost 2 decades. (2010),SgtHappyPants,e8b8y1j,SandersForPresident
"The only ones shooting themselves in the foot are the democratic establishment. They keep using the same failed strategy of representing corporate interests and abandoning the working class. 

If you find yourself blaming voters rather than your own party's failure to convince voters, then you're probably a victim of partisan propaganda.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dsw3v,SandersForPresident
No one said that.,StoopKid241,e8bcovs,SandersForPresident
Did you make a paper plane out of your ballot?,ThundaTed,e8bfexc,SandersForPresident
"He's lying, but it is a white lie and a necessary one (with the exception of John Roberts). While the US cannot hope to go in a progressive direction anytime soon, it can still save itself from becoming an authoritarian copy of Russia or China and that is what Bernie is trying so hard to do right now.",Zincoshine_2018,e8b1pku,SandersForPresident
I think for myself. I think about my family's welfare and my children's Welfare. You should give it a shot sometime,fladawgs,e8e9byf,SandersForPresident
No but the fact is is that your first reaction was to go look at my Reddit history. I've been posting on here for a long time and I've never done that. Because I don't want to use that as a tool to determine as to whether I am right or wrong,fladawgs,e8e9adb,SandersForPresident
"https://ourworldindata.org/what-was-the-death-toll-from-chernobyl-and-fukushima

Uranium mining is an unfortunate must, however, seawater is high in uranium and can be used as a pretty much unlimited supply of it. As reactors get better, we can use more and more uranium in the waste, until there is virtually none left.

Yes, there isn't a definite answer for any of the long term effects right now for these tragedies. At the end of the day though, corners were cut, and safety mechanisms were shut down. These disasters were entirely preventable. 

I also noticed you didn't mention anything about the concerns of solar energy.

https://sciencing.com/toxic-chemicals-solar-panels-18393.html

As for Greenpeace:

https://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2011-07-14/20110714-greenpeace-gm-protest/2794272

http://www.aparchive.com/metadata/UK-GREENPEACE-ACTIVISTS-DESTROY-GM-CROPS/b8fa8cd3a535ca1b3719ce3c9fde48fb?query=rhine+river&current=9&orderBy=Relevance&hits=136&referrer=search&search=%2Fsearch%3Fquery%3Drhine%2520river%26allFilters%3DGREENPEACE%3AKeyword%2CTechnology%3ASubject&allFilters=GREENPEACE%3AKeyword%2CTechnology%3ASubject&productType=IncludedProducts&page=1&b=de48fb

https://slate.com/technology/2013/08/golden-rice-attack-in-philippines-anti-gmo-activists-lie-about-protest-and-safety.html

https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2013/08/activists-destroy-golden-rice-field-trial

https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/jun/26/greenpeace-under-fire-for-eco-terrorism-tactics/

Using Greenpeace as a source for any form of science is like using PETA as an animal rights source.",IGNOREMETHATSFINETOO,e8ccw9e,SandersForPresident
"It isn't necessarily the value of labor itself. The founder earns based on the impact they have on society. Bezos earns as much as he does because the service that he created provides immense value to tens or even hundreds of millions of people. Of course he didn't do it alone, but the company is his which entitles him to the profits. Any employees agreed to their wages so other than saying ""It's not fair"", I don't understand the objection to it. Almost anyone who wants to make more money in the US is able to if they commit to doing the work necessary",jbarkleyisdead,e8bqcuf,SandersForPresident
What about Kamala Harris? ,atheosuede,e8df5v5,SandersForPresident
"I would disagree. I think market 'socialism' could be a good stepping stone to *actual* socialism, but as Marx discovered, the production of commodities for exchange is what drives capitalism- commodities are capitalism's 'prime element'. We need a system that produces and distributes goods based on social needs, which requires an end to exchange value (and thus, markets).",pomcq,e8e5c68,SandersForPresident
"Depends how strict your burden of proof is. I would say that if the workers aren't allowed to utalize direct of their workplaces, and it is instead managed by a representative state, then no. Not to mention a system that tolerates capitalism isn't socialism.",kCchief207,e8bzsuy,SandersForPresident
"That's often called state socialism.

But what about the IKEA and H&M factories in Southeast Asia? They still have a proletariat, they've simply outsourced it, like they did the waste and pollution. I would not call that socialism at all, just global capitalism where entire countries are a bourgeoisie class profiting off of the labor of the global South.",JediAight,e8cmo0t,SandersForPresident
I like your jive. ,Skull025,e8brsp6,SandersForPresident
">The line between social and social democrat is more blurry than you think.

You are right. I just wanted to point out that those specific programs aren't socialist. ",Cheechster4,e8dp31j,SandersForPresident
Do you have an explanation on why? ,Cheechster4,e8bm97d,SandersForPresident
"Bernie from a purely economic perspective is a social democrat which does not in anyway adhere to central planning (command economic) principles nor has he proposed any. Social democrats tend to support stricter regulation of the private sector not a wholesale takeover of the economy and that's kind of an important distinction. In other words, Bernie can't be closer to a command economy than Warren because neither of them is proposing any form of central planning in their economic policy and what they are proposing has very little if anything to do with central planning.

The irony in her statements is that social democracy is in fact a form of capitalism. So, by saying ""I am a capitalist to my bones"" and ""He's a socialist, and I believe in markets."" it comes off as if she were saying *I am more of a capitalist and I believe in less regulation*. Now, there is nothing inherently wrong with that belief and I personally side closer to Warren than Bernie in that regard. I just find her rhetoric to be somewhat nonsensical when taken at face value. To be fair, every politician does this even Bernie and it's always funny... it's kind of like when my girlfriend refers to every single sugary carbonated beverage as a ""coke"". I know what she means but I'm still going to tease her for saying it. 
",SLowfalls,e8c0v3w,SandersForPresident
"I have never seen any indication of any kind that Sanders favors a ""command economy.""

The point I was making in my last paragraph is that you can have a socialist economy that is in no way a ""command economy"" and uses markets to allocate resources.",pseudointel_forum,e8c3e3k,SandersForPresident
"Agreed that she would be in for a rough ride to election in any case, but her DNA test gamble didn't play well.

I don't hold it against her personally. She always said her family was her family, and when a shitstain like Trump makes manifestly false denials about whether her claimed family history was true, she rebutted. Her DNA testing upholds her side: that her family ancestry includes Native Americans, but she never did and never has claimed tribal membership as a cultural background. If our country had the mental discipline to parse through even that slight level of factual nuance, Trump wouldn't stand a chance. And it's not to say that The Pocahontas shit ever really stopped. Trump was punching at her at rallies for weeks before she announced the test results.

However... All that aside, the media effect has been damaging to Warren, who really didn't need any further obstacles right when she could be building momentum. I'm hoping we don't see the left consolidate around her, because I will lose it if I have to watch as another smart, credible, hardworking Democrat fall on her face in the fight against the dumbest bag of dicks ever to fall into a tanning bed.",snorbflock,e8bo8c8,SandersForPresident
"No, republicans were saying it all the time. Trump was quoted calling her Pocahontas dozens of times. She defended herself. Why is that so damning?",grayemansam,e8bz3av,SandersForPresident
"I've said it before, but it should have been obvious to every Dem politician what stooping to Trump's level gets you after the Republican debates.",explodedsun,e8br99t,SandersForPresident
Yup^ this bernie or bust shit is down right dangerous at this point.(coming from a huge bernie fan),grayemansam,e8bzhd8,SandersForPresident
No because the Clintons aren't nearly as powerful in the party as you think they are. It is the wealthy capitalists behind them that gives them power. ,Cheechster4,e8bcd68,SandersForPresident
Not saying not to fight back and get dirty...just be a little thoughtful and creative.,BigRedTed,e8bl5gn,SandersForPresident
"Eh, the childish mudslinging is what makes Trump worse than a garden-variety republican president. It's not just an issue of tactics or having the ""high ground"". For me preserving/restoring the seriousness of policy debate is as crucial of an end in and of itself as the policies I advocate for. ",teh_hasay,e8c6zre,SandersForPresident
"The civil left loves to jort and sneer while the ship sinks, as long as we lose honorably, losing is fine, eh?",robotzor,e8b67tt,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8b9vz1,SandersForPresident
the difference between Warren and Clinton is I actually would've shown up to vote for her.,afadedgiant,e8b37s2,SandersForPresident
"That hasn't happened and is unlikely to; even if the two compete in the primary, that's perfectly fine and desired because both are solid idea or policy officials.  Both have been fairly quiet about a run because I suspect they're waiting for the other to declare so they can bow out as they share a concern there needs to be one credible progressive candidate during the race.

There will be more than one centrist candidate without a doubt be it Cuomo, Biden, Bloomberg, and/or Booker which will split the vote on that end anyway.  (There's speculation on Harris who could run on the gradient between centrist and progressive.)

&#x200B;",Plowbeast,e8ciauf,SandersForPresident
So much this,Fenna7,e8bla9h,SandersForPresident
"""Silent Liz"" *reeks* of the ""Lyin Ted"", ""Little Marco"", etc garbage that Trump did and is absolutely name calling.",wsoxfan1214,e8bfeqn,SandersForPresident
"Hey there.

We try to keep r/SandersForPresident an active and productive place to discuss progressive issue and policies. While your comment is appreciated, it doesn't really provide much context, content, or direction for discussion.

If you could edit your comment to contribute something more substantive that would be appreciated, and if you would like a refresher on what the rules are for r/SandersForPresident you can find them [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules).

*Your friendly mod team*",JayandSilentB0b,e8b2vml,SandersForPresident
"Then why would she run to defeat Bernie in 2020, when she didn't run to defeat Hillary?",BopTheDrass,e8c10w6,SandersForPresident
">if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)


>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

>We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  ",Chartis,e8bhl77,SandersForPresident
"I guess I’m a single issue voter then. Maybe I hope her silence was out of cowardice. If her silence was a conscious policy decision, I like her even less.

I can’t imagine a world where someone actively endorses Clinton and simultaneously opposes neoliberalism. The Clintons are a close 2nd behind Reagan for damage that people have caused our country. Anyone who is friends with Hillary’s is no friend of mine.",LiquidDreamtime,e8c5q8r,SandersForPresident
"> Have you considered that she simply chose what she felt was right?

Even if she thought it was right to endorse Cordray in Ohio,  it's a bad choice for progressives.  It's also bizarre that Warren is against progressives primarying corporate democrats. 

I don't think Warren is a neoliberal. But she is a bit too comfy with the democratic establishment for my taste. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8drqd9,SandersForPresident
Well then she’s a coward AND stupid. Bad combo.,LiquidDreamtime,e8mpsc3,SandersForPresident
"Don't bother.  Facts don't matter in here.

This is just one giant circle jerk that is splitting the left and helping the right.",Tiels_Fishin_Packers,e8b9bm1,SandersForPresident
"I voted for local representatives I liked, not for President ",4ArthurDent2,e8bfhaf,SandersForPresident
I'm sure the oligarchs are glad to see you don't believe in democracy.,cos1ne,e8bhhd5,SandersForPresident
"No, he's not. 

And as to hopes of progress: In the general, Millennials & Gen Xers together [cast more votes than older generations combined.](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/07/31/millennials-and-gen-xers-outvoted-boomers-and-older-generations-in-2016-election/)  

---  

>The ideas which we raised (which were then considered to be radical & extreme), because we stood together fighting for justice those ideas are not radical anymore. They're supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.

-Bernie, [Oct 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtDH2XfY1ko&feature=youtu.be&t=3472)  

>Getting young people involved in the political process will determine how successful we are and will in fact determine the future of this country. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://twitter.com/NYTLive/status/1047880870957371393)  

>Young people are the future of this country. You are leading this country. Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8b25ro,SandersForPresident
Cool story,davidsthomas94,e8e9mwj,SandersForPresident
"Uranium mining is unfortunate though not a must if the few, old, & uneconomical reactors are phased out.

>There isn't a definite answer for any of the long term effects right now for these tragedies.  

I concur. Which is partly why transitioning to sustainable energy is worthwhile.  

I also notice you didn't mention anything about the The Sierra Club's valid voice in the matter.  

If you'd like to appeal that ""reactors get better"" then consider that solar is not only an improvement, but an improvable one too. The link provided notes 4 chemicals that may be used in production but does not quantify their impacts or say their use is mandatory.    


",Chartis,e8cdj6j,SandersForPresident
"Yes I agree, the value of labor is not always equal, the problem lies when you put too much value in one person.
Jeff Bezos would not have been capable of even starting his business if not for the thousands of innovations that happen before him. Most prominently the Internet, Jeff Bezos did not make or invent it, yet it is the primary method of communication and data sharing for Amazon and without it Amazon would not exist. Because of the World Wide Web and the advent of Computers, all workers are more productive than any other point in history, yet all the profits go to the top.

one would think that more productive workers deserve more pay, but more-often-than-not this extra productivity translates to more Profit for Shareholders and CEOs.

In the end though the problem is not that Jeff Bezos is a billionaire. The problem is that he is a billionaire at the expense of 100,000s of workers.",Castro2man,e8brho8,SandersForPresident
"Capitalism and Socialism are not strictly binary categories, they can and do exist on a spectrum of sorts, in reality.

I don't even know what the phrase ""tolerates capitalism"" means. If the state ends up owning a majority stake in the economy through a sovereign/citizens wealth fund, and everyone benefits from a share in this fund, then that's good. In such a system, there could be a real diversity of work environments, from a fully state-run medical system, to a state-owned enterprise with 33-66% employee representation on the board, to a fully worker-owned cooperative. Different business models might be better suited to different market segments or industries.

What if such a system essentially eliminates the role of wealthy individuals. Imagine there are just varying levels of ""middle class"" and nobody is allowed to accumulate enough money to buy elections etc. There would essentially be no capitalists to speak of.

The role of markets is necessary IMHO, but only in order to figure out supply and demand aspects of the economy.

So I believe in market socialism, but one in which there isn't a real capitalist class of the super-rich. ",pseudointel_forum,e8c0wkj,SandersForPresident
What's the point you're trying to make?,pseudointel_forum,e8csa06,SandersForPresident
"Honestly no, and I used to think like you. I think it's an unfortunate natural consequence of the state wielding so much power (ie Venezuela, late 20th century China). I agree that we need some radical change considering how quickly climate change will destroy us. But I think old school socialism is a busted flush. ",theivoryserf,e8bmhkt,SandersForPresident
"Durkheim over a 100 years ago thought socialism was a ""cry of anguish"" at inequality rather than a real solution.

[Fancy book](https://books.google.com/books?id=KfxADgAAQBAJ&pg=PT283&lpg=PT283&dq=EMILE+DURKHEIM+SOCIALISM+CRY+OF+ANGUISH&source=bl&ots=D4YuUXy6wK&sig=ARxp2zVoEtl2FlDCfWyFDYDknOU&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiTjO2Q2p3eAhVDQKwKHSJrAlcQ6AEwAHoECAsQAQ#v=onepage&q=EMILE%20DURKHEIM%20SOCIALISM%20CRY%20OF%20ANGUISH&f=false)

It's simply not well thought out and greedy cynical people slide in right after the revolution.  It's reactionary.

&#x200B;",seattlewausa,e8btnma,SandersForPresident
">Bernie from a purely economic perspective is a social democrat which does not in anyway adhere to central planning (command economic) principles nor has he proposed any.

I would argue that the $15 per hour minimum wage across the entire economy with no allowances for cost of living in each area shows he does have some command economy tendencies (but he's not an extremist... I'm not calling him a communist or anything).  So he has proposed some.  Likewise, his health care plans certainly take on some command economy traits (I'm not saying that's bad, I like his plan).  

>The irony in her statements is that social democracy is in fact a form of capitalism. So, by saying ""I am a capitalist to my bones"" and ""He's a socialist, and I believe in markets."" it comes off as if she were saying I am more of a capitalist and I believe in less regulation.

She knows social democracy involves capitalism (but I'd argue it's a hybrid of socialism and capitalism, trying to take the best of both).  And she does, indeed, want a little more capitalism and a little less high level regulation than Sanders... though obviously she still wants a heck of a lot more regulation than even a lot of the Democratic party.

I think you're just taking her words pretty out of context.  She's just comparing their beliefs, and what she said was true... she's more into liberal economies that are well regulated (but she appreciates some command economy traits), while he has a slightly higher appreciation for a top down approach to the economy (while still having an appreciation for well regulated markets).  It's less of a binary than you imply here.
",JaronK,e8c3jg8,SandersForPresident
"Compared to Warren, he slightly does (across the country $15 minimum wage regardless of local cost of living, for example).  He's not Stalin or Mao here, he's just a little further in that direction than Warren.  It's a spectrum, after all.",JaronK,e8c3m8f,SandersForPresident
She definitely claimed that her parents werent allowed to marry because her “pappa’s” parents didnt approve of her mothers side having cherokee and delaware indian in them. She used this to leverage sympathy points and to be able to act as if she understands being part of a marginalized group when she is just another rich lady who has grown up with every opportunity to succeed. There isnt anything wrong with having family connections and opportunities that have helped you in life but to then claim the exact opposite is laughable at best and to me is honestly disgusting. ,STFUandL2P,e8bq3vk,SandersForPresident
Because everything had already died down and no one was bringing it up anymore. Poor calculation on her part to release a study on her ancestry to the public after all of that as well. ,STFUandL2P,e8bzplo,SandersForPresident
"That's why I don't blame thing on the Clintons anymore; but rather blame that wing of the party. The Clintons aren't the problem, it's the huge chunk of the party that was so quick to throw labor under the bus.",BlueShellOP,e8bp6yu,SandersForPresident
Please tell me more about these nefarious capitalists in their pizza parlor basements. It's such a neat story and a great escape from reality where the GOP is destroying our country and future.,ThundaTed,e8bfa13,SandersForPresident
"Yeah saying ""Silent Liz"" is really getting down in the trenches and rolling your sleeves up... shits juvenile.",grayemansam,e8bzp1d,SandersForPresident
"[When They Go Low, We Go Hard](https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/2018/10/213621/black-women-midterm-elections-rural-south-voters)",Chartis,e8batzk,SandersForPresident
"""They go grade school, we go grade school"" isn't really a winning strategy either.",wsoxfan1214,e8bfbpv,SandersForPresident
Are you the same type of child that throws out that anti purity test bullshit when it comes to corruption/money in politics when it comes to corporate cash taking Dems? She was fucking silent when the country and World needed her the most. She kept her fucking hypocritical mouth shut and literally helped lead us into a Trump presidency. She had the chance to support the a person who is the epitome of fighting the billionaire class but she hypocritically kept silent when it mattered the most. She said the primary was rigged way after the fact and then even walked that back. Fuck silent Liz and fuck anybody that’s not competent enough to understand the anger and frustration she earned through her hypocritical actions.  ,Hotchicas1234,e8bmxqz,SandersForPresident
"Thats literally what the primaries are for. Let them run against each other and do their best, then hopefully support one another afterwards.",grayemansam,e8c2pc3,SandersForPresident
Bernie advocated voting for Hilary. Is Bernie no longer your friend? ,SgtHappyPants,e8cv57l,SandersForPresident
"Nobody is perfect. Bernie took money from the NRA back in the day, should I call him a special interest tool? No. 

&#x200B;

One bad decision doesn't undo her whole record as a progressive against corporate greed. I don't want her to be the nominee because this whole Pocahontas response has shown how bad she is at politics, even if she is great at policy.",hueylongsgiantdong,e8mqpf4,SandersForPresident
"Do not dissent with the DNC or you are a republican! 

Tribalist.",robotzor,e8b9f0p,SandersForPresident
"This mindset is curious to me. No matter what you do, you get a President. That is absolutely unavoidable. It. is. to your upmost, personal, professional, and social advantage to vote for the one that benefits you and America the most.

How can opting out of your ability to pick make sense? Morals? I would argue you're now an accessory to all of ills we face under the next presidency and none of the wins.. no matter who becomes President! At least by choosing, you are pooling your logic, your reasoning, your values, your common sense, etc with other like-minded individuals to nudge this country in the best possible direction for an unavoidable situation. Again: Unavoidable. Opting out is reckless, selfish, and immature.",ThundaTed,e8bhzyt,SandersForPresident
I believe we have a duty to vote.,ThundaTed,e8bidfr,SandersForPresident
"All 3 of those quotes are true, yes.",Zincoshine_2018,e8b58j9,SandersForPresident
I'm sure yours is better,fladawgs,e8eaafl,SandersForPresident
"https://www.instituteforenergyresearch.org/uncategorized/will-solar-power-fault-next-environmental-crisis/

http://environmentalprogress.org/big-news/2017/6/21/are-we-headed-for-a-solar-waste-crisis


I will admit that The Sierra Club does have some valid points, but a lot of them have to do with the cost. Right now, no, it's not very cost efficient. The reason being is because of how much red tape there is to cut through. It often leads to them starting a reactor and having to pay so much extra out of the start up funds that they eventually run out of money and therefore have to stop. It's a political issue at that point. There is just too much push back on it for it to be financially viable. It's still a viable option for renewable energy, minus the cost prohibitions.


As for the solar panels: until we get to the point where we no longer need silicone to make them, it's still going to have toxic issues, and mining issues, and leeching issues. They're also dependent on the weather and expensive to produce/buy. It also increases the load on the power grid and causes instability in it. I do believe that solar can be optimized and can be a good source of energy, but it's not there yet, and I doubt it will be within the next 20-ish years.

Again, geothermal is the cleanest source we have right now, with water being a very close second, but neither one is really viable in every situation. Wind turbines are too reliant on oil to work properly (have you seen one catch on fire?), and solar is toxic with a rather short lifespan (~25 years on average) and no reliable way of storing the energy.

In the short term, solar is what's best for homeowners, but doesn't quite cut it for a long term solution.

I do believe every renewable energy source has it's benefits and it's risks, and none of them are a blanket solution. We need a mix of several types, including nuclear power to get away from fossil fuels. Once we're no longer dependent on them, then we can focus on a more permanent and blanket solution to long term energy consumption.",IGNOREMETHATSFINETOO,e8cej0u,SandersForPresident
">the problem is not that Jeff Bezos is a billionaire. The problem is that he is a billionaire at the expense of 100,000s of workers.    

Well said. There's real pain that this sort of gamification of the system needlessly hinders. The harm is the problem.  



>* 44% of adults could not cover an emergency expense costing $400.

>* The persistence of extreme poverty is a political choice made by those in power.  

-Philip Alston: UN Report on Extreme Poverty & Human Rights, [June 22^nd 2018](http://undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1)

With [Jeff's worth around $168 billion](https://www.zdnet.com/article/amazon-following-apple-briefly-joins-the-trillion-dollar-club/) and [Humanity's total wealth of ~$280 trillion](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/11/14/richest-1-percent-now-own-half-the-worlds-wealth.html) he owns  1/16,000^th of worldwide wealth.

Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud's is worth 1/10^th of that but his oil company is worth ~$1.2tr [(recently leaked and 40% less than the $2tr they claimed)](https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-10-22/worleyparsons-s-oil-services-deal-with-jacobs-is-a-hail-mary-pass). Other assets of his Kingdom aside he owns over .4% of Humanity's wealth.  

This ain't a game and we can't quit the field so [we're going to have to address this presently.](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/oct/08/global-warming-must-not-exceed-15c-warns-landmark-un-report)  ",Chartis,e8bsgtu,SandersForPresident
"So why are his accomplishments less impressive because other people invented technology that he built upon? Is the internet less amazing because it relies on electricity?

Also, I don't think that the corporate structure is without flaws, because it obviously isn't, but his wealth is not at anyone's expense, as it doesnt preclude them from earning their own fortune, and it doesn't take their wealth and give it to anyone else (like people would do with Bezos' money if given a chance)",jbarkleyisdead,e8bs7ax,SandersForPresident
Great response. As a former graduate student in Applied Economics fwiw; kudos.,s-to-the-am,e8c5bdp,SandersForPresident
"I agree, although if I'm nitpicking I would disagree with your term ""capitalist class,"" and rather call it the ""super wealthy class,"" or something to that effect. 

Also, there are some things that government is just too big and bulky for.  It's important to have rewards for smart risks, hard work, interesting innovation, etc. it's also important to have a strong enough net where people can feel like they can make those risks without destroying themselves if they fail. Wealth inequality isn't bad it's about scale. ",Magsays,e8cvdji,SandersForPresident
The actual working class who labors on behalf of many of the Nord's biggest corporations certainly don't own the means of production or benefit from the profits in the way that the petit bourgeoisie (the Nords) do.,JediAight,e8ctv8c,SandersForPresident
"Socialism isn't the state owning everything. It is democracy in the workplace where the workers own and control their own work. [Venezuela is hardly full socialism and has economic problems not related to socialism.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=le86H7Xfjrc)   


Does china have democracy at work? No? Then it isn't socialist.  ",Cheechster4,e8bmzsz,SandersForPresident
"The $15 wage is merely a minor change in federal statute, and has no bearing on the question of whether the US  has a command economy.

A command economy refers, primarily, to an economic system in which all production (and potentially, all economic activity of any kind) is centrally planned.",pseudointel_forum,e8c483y,SandersForPresident
"I trust you'll hold yourself to the same degree of intellectual rigor.

For instance, it's even more disingenuous to smear Warren as some rich, family-connected lady who inherited undeserved opportunities. She was raised in Oklahoma City with a salesman dad who died when she was 12 and a mom who went back to work at Sears. Let's accept that she may know something about working in America.",snorbflock,e8bs1bf,SandersForPresident
"I didnt even hear about it til a month or two back, and Trump was STILL saying it up until the point she released the DNA test. So wrong again.",grayemansam,e8c2t9m,SandersForPresident
"Exactly.  Take shots...but if the best shot we can come up with is ""Silent Liz"" maybe take a backseat and let someone else step up.",BigRedTed,e8bl1eo,SandersForPresident
"I'm not, actually, thanks for asking. ",wsoxfan1214,e8bt331,SandersForPresident
"But you said they agree on 95% of the issues, so what would them running against each other do besides split the progressive vote? If Warren is truly an ally of the progressive movement, shouldn't she let the candidate with far more popularity and momentum run to represent progressives in a cleaner primary, so that it becomes easier to defeat the corporatists? And that doesn't answer why she wants to run to defeat Bernie but didn't want to run against Clinton.",BopTheDrass,e8c8e8j,SandersForPresident
"After it was all said and done I understand why Bernie said we should vote for Hillary over Trump. I didn’t agree with him but recognize the political prudence of saying this.

I wrote in Bernard Sanders when I voted for president. I could not in good conscious vote for Hillary and I will never vote for the lesser of 2 evils. 

It may take the worse of two evils getting elected over and over for the DNC to pull their heads out of their asses. I won’t be a party to their dishonesty, collusion, corruption, and ignorance.",LiquidDreamtime,e8cy0v8,SandersForPresident
"I think your recent decisions do define who you are. She undid a lot of years of trust in the 2016 primaries and has to earn it back, and I’m not sure if she can.",LiquidDreamtime,e8msf8j,SandersForPresident
">[Do not dissent with the DNC or you are a republican!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FopyRHHlt3M)

Ha.  Thanks for proving my point with your strawman defense.

Have a nice day cupcake.",Tiels_Fishin_Packers,e8ba6lt,SandersForPresident
"I live in a deep red state that was not going to flip, my vote didn’t matter for the Presidency ",4ArthurDent2,e8bi59r,SandersForPresident
"Then let them vote, stop saying ""you didn't vote for this one candidate so you're the reason why we have shit today"".

You speak about allowing people to make the choices they want to vote but then you talk smack about their voting habits even if they voted neither Trump or Clinton because apparently in your eyes a third party can never exist and because of that has no reason to be voted for. But hey, it's okay to talk smack about people and divide everyone even more by blaming them just because they didn't vote for your choice, rather than the establishment for even putting us in this place in the beginning.

This is exactly what the establishment wants. For us to divide each other so that the argument is that you either vote for their candidate even if you don't want it just because it's the ""better candidate"". There's a reason why Clinton didn't visit or rally at many swing States like Bernie did, and that's because the DNC and Clinton's plan to win the election was essentially, ""Hey, at least I'm not Trump right""? 

Note: I actually voted Clinton, but to push the blame onto those who voted third party or other candidates (Trump on the other hand is no excuse) is exactly what our opposition wants. ",kyperion,e8bkn2t,SandersForPresident
"[Silicone doesn't need to be used in solar](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2018/02/03/a-new-type-of-solar-cell-is-coming-to-market). Lubricants are infinitesimal, can be safely disposed of, and don't produce much greenhouse gas at all. Comparatively to nuclear it's yugely better anyway.  

The expense of panels can be subsidized. [Money is created when the government authorizes a budget by using natural resources, production, and jobs to back currency.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it/e80lj35/) This is an excellent asset to produce. There's ample sunshine, and used in conjunction with other sustainable energy we're here now. It's viable. This is an issue of political will, and nuclear is a hindrance in that regard due to optics & cost.",Chartis,e8cf46u,SandersForPresident
"I argue that Jeff Bezos is in fact exploiting and under-paying his workers. https://newfoodeconomy.org/amazon-snap-employees-five-states/ 

Our govt certainly think so. Anybody who receives Food Stamps while Employed is been exploited and underpaid.",Castro2man,e8bsn8l,SandersForPresident
"I disagree with just about everything you wrote in the paragraph below. Also, much of your response consists of business-speak buzzwords and laughable assumptions.

> Also, there are some things that government is just too big and bulky for.  It's important to have rewards for smart risks, hard work, interesting innovation, etc. it's also important to have a strong enough net where people can feel like they can make those risks without destroying themselves if they fail. Wealth inequality isn't bad it's about scale.

You said that government is too ""big and bulky."" How can a government be ""bulky?"" This is semantically meaningless, and is therefore a nonsensical assertion. If you think the scale of organizations is important, then the government can create or be involved in the management of small firms that operate relatively independently.

For another thing, wealth inequality *is* bad. I'd go so far as to say any accumulation of private wealth is probably bad.",pseudointel_forum,e8czob1,SandersForPresident
What's your conclusion? What follows logically from this?,pseudointel_forum,e8cty5u,SandersForPresident
"Yes that's the argument I used to use as well - No True Scotsman. The thing is that all the socialist states start that with those principles, and yet the result is very similar.",theivoryserf,e8bnzlz,SandersForPresident
"My bad. I didnt know that. That is my mistake then but that honestly doesnt make it much better. 

In this case she really did earn her own way through law school and didnt need any of this Native heritage thing to boost her chances. Why not just run on that? Working hard and making your way to a better position in life for you and your family is something to be commended. ",STFUandL2P,e8btskx,SandersForPresident
Oooo don’t call Warren silent Liz on reddit !!  Come on..,Hotchicas1234,e8btgw3,SandersForPresident
"If she runs and loses/wins against Bernie, they would both have momentum for a dual ticket. I wouldn't count on such coordination just yet, but there's no way they aren't both considering their options.",betomorrow,e8cezts,SandersForPresident
I want you to know. If this is your actual mentality you're fucked beyond belief and I love it. ,Fragglerockisbad,e8llt7x,SandersForPresident
"The question was about you stating that Warren is no friend of yours because she is friends with Clinton. Meanwhile, you still support Bernie (and voted for him), while he endorsed Clinton. Why the double standard for Warren and not for Bernie? ",SgtHappyPants,e8cy6d2,SandersForPresident
"I'm actually encouraged ppl here are seeing the divisive garbage for what it is. It's curious why some are spending all their time disparaging Democrats and *none* of it in actual civil discourse of issues, policies, and candidates within the left.",ThundaTed,e8bet5r,SandersForPresident
"Without voting, you are invisible to those making decisions on your behalf. You don't show up in the votes representing a set of values = those set of values are further downgraded.",ThundaTed,e8bik1d,SandersForPresident
"o\_O I did not talk smack about third parties. The poster specifically said they did not vote for President. My response was he has a duty to make his voice heard and was not party specific.

But nice play bringing it back to bashing Democrats. Is there a scoreboard kept somewhere? LOL. Will your response to this somehow incorporate Benghazi? Or a server?",ThundaTed,e8bl9b6,SandersForPresident
"That's not a logical generalization, there are too many variables to consider. Single parents of 5 kids who are employed aren't exploited if they receive benefits, they're just in a rough place in life. Also, Jeff Bezos isn't directly involved in payroll, and I'm willing to bet that his workers receive competitive pay for their skill levels, or else they wouldn't take the job. Anyone is capable of making more money, but forcing a corporation to grant you handouts on a basis of your socioeconomic class isn't a solution. Even if everyone made more money, the system would shift and leave some people with a lack of money",jbarkleyisdead,e8bth0h,SandersForPresident
"It can be too big and bulky in the sense that it can impede progress. If every little thing is monitored and regulated it can impede creativeness.  The ones who thought-up and created those regulations were not considering how this new and creative way of doing things would work. They can't consider it because this new way wasn't invented yet. 

>  the government can create or be involved in the management of small firms that operate relatively independently.

I guess theoretically it could, but then people would have to go through a lot of bureaucracy and spend time, effort, and resources to have their ideas implemented.  I think a much better idea would be to implement fairly progressive income taxes, maybe give incentives to companies that are progressive environmentallyans such, and then let the market decide what it wants. 

I guess I would agree with you that wealth inequality is bad but I think it's a necessary evil. As a society you have to allow people to over achieve and there must be an incentive to do it. Otherwise the majority of people won't be able to benefit from their achievements.",Magsays,e8d98zy,SandersForPresident
Scandinavia is not socialist (see my original reply to you).,JediAight,e8f0erj,SandersForPresident
"Not really no true Scotsman. It is simply having definitions for things. It's like the question ""Does this ""cow"" have a shell? Yes?  Then it isn't a cow. (when looking at a turtle)   


I don't think the Soviet Union had those principles during the second revolution run by Lenin. I believe he was actually counter revolutionary because he destroyed the actual worker coops.   


To again, point to Rojava, or i could even point to the Paris commune or anarchist Catalonia, they all started with socialist ideals and theories of democracy and people controlling their own lives and they didn't end with dictatorships. Instead one is still going on with a very strong direct democracy system and was able to expand their territory and defeat ISIS when the US couldn't. The other two were crushed by imperialist powers on both the fascist and/or liberal fashion.  ",Cheechster4,e8botd4,SandersForPresident
"It should be pointed out that she did exactly that. She achieved success in law school and in politics on her own hard work. She didn't use minority claims to get hired by Harvard, as both she and Harvard have stated. Much later, someone on the faculty noticed a photo she kept of her mom, and after a conversation the department became aware of the family understanding that they have some Native American blood a few generations back. Well after she was hired, Harvard referred to her as a minority and she didn't even find out about it until Republicans tried to use it as an insult. Did Warren ever even publicly identify herself as having Native American ancestry? If you dig a long time, you can find a faculty directory where she put out a search for other faculty with Native American ancestry. That's about it.

https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/16/elizabeth-warren-native-american-ancestry-debate-explained/?utm_term=.e915ad67088e

In 2012, the Boston Herald, a conservative quasi-newspaper wrote an article airing all this in an attempt to try to embarrass her. Then Donald Trump started saying it in 2016 because he apparently couldn't think of any insults more effective than ""Pocahontas.""

Remember that Donnie Goodbrain tried all this in 2010-2012 with Obama's birth certificate, and Obama shut it down finally by producing the birth certificate. It's a disgrace that an unintelligent goon could produce such a big tantrum that the president found it necessary to dignify the smears with a rebuttal, but you can't fault Warren too hard for following the same strategy.",snorbflock,e8bvsov,SandersForPresident
"It was apparent to me that Bernie has no love of Hillary. I answered your dumb shit question. He endorsed her only after she “won” the democratic primary via collusion, corruption, suppression, and by circumventing the democratic process.

Bernie is a bigger man than I am, which is why I love him. He came out and said I should vote for her. I would have told the world she is a liar, a cheater, and she can burn in Hell.

Bernie is the only politician that has ever inspired me and continued to not disappoint me. He can forgive anyone he wants for the way he was railroaded in the primaries, I never will. Brazille, Wasserman-Schultz, Perez, Biden, Clinton, Warren, and Obama are all dead to me. They are worthless power hungry, wealth seeking, cowards who will never do anything to help me or you. These people all could have exposed the DNC for its corruption but they were silent or actively participating in it, it makes them complicit.

Tulsi Gabbard and Nina Turner are the only people I actually trust, but their inexperience isn’t going to get them very far. Maybe in time they can succeed.",LiquidDreamtime,e8cys42,SandersForPresident
Sounds like he or she was invisible when the candidates list was made,Fat_Maestro,e8canzs,SandersForPresident
">Is there a scoreboard somewhere? LOL. Will your response to this somehow incorporate Benghazi?

Now it will because apparently you fail to realize this isn't an attack on Clinton nor did I vote for Trump nor say that I would rather vote for Trump than Clinton. I specifically stated even I voted for Clinton but in your eyes anyone who isn't apart of your ""perfect plan"" for the DNC is a no good Trump supporter. News flash, we live in a country with hundreds of different opinions, just because it doesn't fit with yours perfectly doesn't mean they're a Trump supporter. Constantly calling people out with slightly different viewpoints of politics than you is exactly why there's such a disconnect with the Democratic party today and why hundreds of thousands feel like their party isn't representing them anymore. What happened to having and making compromises between one another?",kyperion,e8blq50,SandersForPresident
"Nordic social democracy works pretty well, but probably doesn't go far enough.

You have to choose between a mostly socialist society or a mostly capitalist society. You can't be like. ""Yeah socialism is good but what if it were completely capitalist instead."" That's not a thing, that's just capitalism.

Besides, capitalism is probably incompatible with combating global warming. To halt it at 2-5 degrees while maintaining decent quality of life for most will require a complete overhaul of our entire economy from top-to-bottom.

I'm not at all interested in speaking to an apologist for capital whose dumb ideas would result in billions dying from famine and wars over the next hundred years. You're morally bankrupt and your ideas represent among the greatest evils that will ever be inflicted upon humanity.",pseudointel_forum,e8dboee,SandersForPresident
"I'm sorry but you're simply misinformed. Follow these links to get some statistics to debunk your claim. The Norwegian government literally owns 1/3 of their stock market. SOEs (state owned enterprises) are the market leaders in many sectors of the market.

From the first link:

>In Norway, the state manages direct ownership of 70 companies. The businesses include the real estate company Entra; the country’s largest financial services group DNB; the 30,000-employee mobile telecommunications company Telenor; and the famous state-owned oil company Statoil.

Even if you responded with a link of your own to some propagandistic bullshit from Forbes or something, it wouldn't change the facts presented in the links below.

http://mattbruenig.com/2017/07/28/nordic-socialism-is-realer-than-you-think/

https://m.soundcloud.com/ebruenig/nordic-socialism-is-really-real",pseudointel_forum,e8f9z8r,SandersForPresident
"You're talking about a country that has literally nationalized all of its oil and natural gas resources, and its largest financial services firms, along with a whole bunch of other shit, and you're like ""Nah, that's not socialist.""

You're a joke, dude. You're literally as incoherent as a crackhead.

You might as well be an extreme right-winger for all I know. You could just be dismissing Nordic socialism because it doesn't fit into your anti-socialist narrative. Not gonna work, and I'll never stop calling the Nordic model socialist.",pseudointel_forum,e8fb3nz,SandersForPresident
"Have you ever heard the phrase ""Letting the perfect be the enemy of the good""?  Because of your righteousness, you and others are keeping the conservatives in power. I hope that makes you happy. 
",SgtHappyPants,e8d2594,SandersForPresident
"> He endorsed her only after she “won” the democratic primary

So did Warren.  Warren's endorsement came when Hillary had secured the required number of delegates to win the primary.  There were still votes left, but the primary itself was mathematically over.",zdss,e8eqcuv,SandersForPresident
"This strawman you've constructed is quite something. I'd like to meet him one day.

But in the end, it just serves to give away your intentions.",ThundaTed,e8bneyy,SandersForPresident
"I agree the Nordic model works pretty well. 

> You have to choose between a mostly socialist society or a mostly capitalist society. 

No you don't.  It's possible to choose the best aspects of both and use them. 

> capitalism is probably incompatible with combating global warming. 

Not necessarily.  You can have government provide regulations for which companies must abide in order to address climate change.  You could also incentivize companies who do the most good for climate change through tax incentives and government contracts.

> I'm not at all interested in speaking to an apologist for capital whose dumb ideas would result in billions dying from famine and wars over the next hundred years. You're morally bankrupt and your ideas represent among the greatest evils that will ever be inflicted upon humanity.

If you are not interested in talking with anyone who disagrees with you, even in the slightest ways, then you are not interested in moving your own ideas forward. How are you to expect someone else to be open minded when you are not? How will anyone hear your message if you surround yourself in a safe bubble of conversation and thought?  

You are looking at the world as black or white. The world actually opporates in the grey. Capitalism has done some good but it has also done some bad. There is no reason why we can't take the good aspects and then socialize the bad aspects. 

I'm trying to figure out what works best, not what fits into a preconceived ideology. ",Magsays,e8dd25n,SandersForPresident
"The implication with that phrase is that I’m forsaking good (Clinton) while seeking perfection (Bernie). However, I don’t think Clinton was good. Or mediocre. Or even acceptable.

I’ll vote for Warren if she does something inspiring. But she’s got a tough road to hoe given her cowardice in the 2016 primaries.

It doesn’t make me happy that Democrats continue to drop the ball. I also refuse to accept responsibility for their incompetence.",LiquidDreamtime,e8d3oba,SandersForPresident
"But I believe that if she had stayed true to the platform she says she represents, she would have endorsed Bernie.

But she likely knew he wasn’t going to win because of the many factors stacked against him, some of them legitimate and some of them not. So rather than simply try to support him, she sat idly by while the DNC cheated and was as quiet as a church mouse.

Politicians that are silent when they know about corruption are complicit in it. She’s worthless to me. I think we should all hold our politicians to a higher standard, and her claim to righteousness can make her the first casualty to this higher standard. ",LiquidDreamtime,e8eqzal,SandersForPresident
"Look. If you want to halt global warming at around 4 degrees C, you have to do the following by about 2040:

Mandate fuel efficiency standards that would lead to almost all electric vehicles.

Build high-density housing close to urban centers, to reduce vehicular commutes.

Introduce a carbon tax that would make international air travel an impossibility, and reduce meat and dairy consumption to a small fraction of current levels.

Build massive public transportation projects to reduce transportation related fossil fuel consumption.

Rebuild the energy grid entirely.

Build a ton of solar, wind and nuclear capacity.

Forego most international shipping, or replace diesel powered ships with nuclear powered cargo vessels.

Nationalize fossil fuel reserves to prevent the sale  of fossil fuels to other countries with no emissions controls.

These are just a few of the steps that would be ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY to prevent completely catastrophic levels of climate change. I'm sure there's quite a lot I haven't thought of. In addition, this all needs to be done while the economy is shrinking due to a lack of cheap power and raw materials in every sector of the economy. The current capitalist economy is largely one giant bubble due to completely insane levels of resource consumption.

There's really little to no room in this scenario for capitalists to get rich skimming profit off the top of every transaction, because all resources should be redirected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to deal with the painful economic effects of the collapse/reorganization of most major industries.
",pseudointel_forum,e8dfqc2,SandersForPresident
"I agree that the Democrats should be better, and I certainly don't blame you for that. Refusing to vote for the Clinton types in the primaries is absolutely the right thing to do. But refusing to vote during the presidential race, or mid-terms IS your responsibility. ",SgtHappyPants,e8d69c3,SandersForPresident
"I agree with just about everything you said. But, it seams to me that someone could, for instance, make some money by filling that need of electric cars or nuclear ships (although that sounds a bit dangerous).  These are all things that would operate in a market system.  The government would be pushing and pulling the market but it's still on the whole, a market system. ",Magsays,e8ffiad,SandersForPresident
"The US has been operating a bunch of Nuclear subs for 50 years with no major problems. It would be more preferable to operate very large Nuclear  cargo ships than not IMO.

There's no need for people to receive exorbitant rewards for so-called innovation.  This model encourages con games, hype, and other bullshit more than anything else. The vast majority of innovations over the past several hundred years have been made by salaried or hourly employees. People ""innovate"" because it's fun and makes their lives easier/saves labor for the most part. I'm all in favor of slightly higher salaries for innovative employees, but I simply don't believe that 500k of incentives makes any real difference over 50k in incentives.",pseudointel_forum,e8foi3z,SandersForPresident
"Huh, interesting about the nuclear subs. I always assumed they had nuclear weapons on them and not run by nuclear power. 

I agree that it does incentivize con games, but I also think you might be slightly underestimating how much incentives play in making things more efficient. I think it's a balance.  I think when you're thinking innovation you're thinking about things like the telephone or the radio, but things like Amazon, google, the cotton gin, the assembly line, etc. were all worked on because of the profit that would be made by their creation. ",Magsays,e8gspz6,SandersForPresident
"I think most of the innovations you mentioned were more-or-less inevitable given their technological and cultural milieu and have almost nothing to do with large monetary incentives.

Amazon and Google were virtually inevitable once a critical mass of people had computers in their home. Amazon is just the Sears catalog (circa 1893) for the 21st century. Google is more akin to the Yellow Pages for the 21st century. It wasn't the first search engine by any means, it was just the quickest to grow, rapidly crowding out its competitors.

I can't think of a single reason why you or anyone else would assume that the promise of great riches enabled these innovations. The fact is, only a relatively small reduction in the cost of each transaction would be enough to convince a catalog sales organization to transition to an online version of their catalog. The reason companies innovate is because they know they'll make a greater profit, but the scale of that extra profit is largely irrelevant as long as it meets a bare minimum threshold to justify the work involved.

It's an accident of history that it happened to be Amazon and Google that won the race to become virtual monopolies. The real reason these organizations have so much money, after all, is because they're virtual monopolies, not because they offer better products and services than their (non-existent) competitors. There's nothing innovative at all in this monopolistic business model. This is one of the oldest tricks in the book, and there were entire kingdoms in antiquity that thrived because their position on a trade route allowed them to exercise monopoly power.

I don't think I'm underestimating at all the role of financial incentives. I think you're dramatically overestimating the role of financial incentives.

I think the notion of vast financial rewards for innovative business models is a lie for gullible people that the bloodsucking vampires of the finance world have successfully promulgated through the media empires that they own. Anyone who tells you otherwise is some cocksucker that want to suck off Jeff Bezos or some other tech billionaire for a fat paycheck.",pseudointel_forum,e8gvvea,SandersForPresident
"You're discounting the role of incentives.  What evidence leads you to the assumption that things will just happen?  Yes Amazon is like the sears catalogue, (although obviously much more advanced,) and just like the Sears catalogue it was created because of profit incentive. 

It's not an accident that google was the best search engine. It happened because people put a lot of work into creating it. Now, the monopoly they have now should probably be looked at by antitrust lawyers, but the product came from hard work that was driven by the incentive structure in place. 

>  The reason companies innovate is because they know they'll make a greater profit, but the scale of that extra profit is largely irrelevant as long as it meets a bare minimum threshold to justify the work involved.

I think this is the key. Like you said, it must at least meet the minimum threshold to justify the work involved.  That's why a market system with government oversight is the best way forward. That's why a progressive income tax structure is necessary. You keep the incentives in place while also taking enough taxes to invest in ""greater good"" programs. ",Magsays,e8lxnq7,SandersForPresident
"I think you've just unquestioningly swallowed a whole bunch of propagandistic neoliberal bullshit about innovation and incentives.

You start with the premise that the development of Amazon and Google as businesses is actually good in the first place, which is highly questionable. Then you say that they came about because of the financial incentives in place, which is a facile insistence that completely takes for granted any chain of causation involved. Finally, you completely fail to take into account what might exist in the place of Amazon and Google if these companies did not exist or if financial incentives for ""innovation"" were drastically reduced. What would exist in their place would certainly not be ""nothing,"" which is exactly why I believe changes would ""just happen."" Change is indeed inevitable, and invention is nearly inevitable.

You act as though we live in Dr. Pangloss' ""best of all possible worlds."" Your position seems so incredibly naive and credulous that it's hard to even know where to begin the discussion.",pseudointel_forum,e8rqvko,SandersForPresident
"Couldn't have said it better myself: 

> If this Memphis City Council referendum passes next month, IRV will be repealed without citizens ever getting to use the reform they voted for. And Council incumbents will have given themselves an extra term.  ",barnaby-joness,e8cr0u2,SandersForPresident
Great job! The way they phrase ballot questions is insane! Good for her for explaining it simply!,4now5now6now,e8ehzz7,SandersForPresident
">Today's news about bombing attempts against President Obama, Secretary Clinton, George Soros, CNN, various Democratic officials and others is gravely disturbing. While many more details will come to light in the coming hours and days, these deeply un-American acts of violence have no place in our great democracy. In this country we battle with words and ideas, not fists and bombs.

>Acts of violence, appeals to violence and condoning violence have no place in American society.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157405689677908)


>STAY FOCUSED dammit. 

>Fuck whoever did these attacks and stay focused. 

>We must VOTE our way out, organize our way out, fight our way out of the current state of the country.

>LISTEN TO ME. 

>I'm not saying you should ignore these bombs and suspicious packages, not at all, but what I am saying is VOTE. 

>VOTE EARLY. 

>Stay focused. 

>Whoever did this meant it as an interruption. Get everybody you know to VOTE. 

>We cannot afford to be thrown off track.

>Do not become stationary. 

>Do not freeze. 

>Do not become a spectator to the clusterfuck that is the United States of America. 

>It is a trainwreck, I know, but do not become paralyzed. 

>The most important action you can take right now is to vote, vote early, and take people.  

-[Shaun King](https://twitter.com/shaunking/status/1055139772019163137), Sanders Institute Fellow",Chartis,e8defsg,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8d2cbg,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e8d8nw7,SandersForPresident
Except you know her cronies throwing out the ballots used her 2016 primary while under legal investigation. ,PM_ME_UR_NECKBEARD,e8fdhr0,SandersForPresident
"Yea, but a Russian nationalist.  Right?  How bad could that be?  We invade Germany to help the suppressed Orange people?  I suppose it's possible, mmm...",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8exsni,SandersForPresident
">Congratulation to Wales for doing what every country in the world should be doing and that is keeping fossil fuels in the ground. Climate change is already having devastating impacts around the world. We must follow Wales' lead and go further by rapidly transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels to renewable energy. If we do that we can create millions of good paying jobs, save the planet and save people money on electricity.

>The time to act is now. On November 6th, vote in candidates who pledge to take action on climate change and get rid of the climate change denying Republicans who currently control Congress.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979750798746581)",Chartis,e8d4437,SandersForPresident
"Iowa 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://mymvd.iowadot.gov/Account/Login?ReturnUrl=%2fVoterRegistration): October 27, 2018 

[General Election](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/pdf/absenteeballotapp.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8fkm9s,SandersForPresident
"Hey Who?!  If you can't keep track of your monetary donations maybe we'll just tax it away enough for you to care.  Fair?

Somehow, I HAVE to know where all my $27 are.",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8e6zev,SandersForPresident
">Three years ago when I introduced Medicare for All in the Senate we had ZERO cosponsors. Today, 225 Democrats running for Congress support Medicare for All. All over this country, people are saying: enough is enough. We are sick and tired of a health care system that makes incredible profits for health insurance and drug companies while leaving millions of Americans without the health care they desperately need. If the American people stand up and vote, we will pass a Medicare for All system and guarantee health care to every American as a right.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979746702080324)",Chartis,e8d47p0,SandersForPresident
B-b-but I thought litmus tests were supposed to be bad!!!11!11!!,OmarIsaiahBetts,e8devp2,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/EmmaVigeland/status/1055142833991102465,Chartis,e8ddlhk,SandersForPresident
">Today's news about bombing attempts against President Obama, Secretary Clinton, George Soros, CNN, various Democratic officials and others is gravely disturbing. While many more details will come to light in the coming hours and days, these deeply un-American acts of violence have no place in our great democracy. In this country we battle with words and ideas, not fists and bombs.

>Acts of violence, appeals to violence and condoning violence have no place in American society.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157405689677908)


>STAY FOCUSED dammit. 

>Fuck whoever did these attacks and stay focused. 

>We must VOTE our way out, organize our way out, fight our way out of the current state of the country.

>LISTEN TO ME. 

>I'm not saying you should ignore these bombs and suspicious packages, not at all, but what I am saying is VOTE. 

>VOTE EARLY. 

>Stay focused. 

>Whoever did this meant it as an interruption. Get everybody you know to VOTE. 

>We cannot afford to be thrown off track.

>Do not become stationary. 

>Do not freeze. 

>Do not become a spectator to the clusterfuck that is the United States of America. 

>It is a trainwreck, I know, but do not become paralyzed. 

>The most important action you can take right now is to vote, vote early, and take people.  

-[Shaun King](https://twitter.com/shaunking/status/1055139772019163137), Sanders Institute Fellow",Chartis,e8de73p,SandersForPresident
"also...all of these targets were seen as ""enemies"" in the progressive world.   
really hope the evil shithead behind these isnt a radical bernie supporter...",Snuffaluffakuss,e8dfe21,SandersForPresident
"im going to get my comment deleted. but i had a smirk when i heard ""democratic congresswoman in florida"" and i KNEW it was going to be DWS, because FUCK that person for getting us into this bullshit political climate that we're in now. ",Snuffaluffakuss,e8dfb53,SandersForPresident
"The media isn't seen as an enemy of the people in ""the progressive world"". In fact:  

>1^st Amendment rights, that's what media is about.  

-[Bernie](https://youtu.be/2brJG8pbvg4?t=267)",Chartis,e8dg88i,SandersForPresident
They should not delete your fine comment.,HIWorkingAward,e8dve8b,SandersForPresident
They consistently bash him and progressives. How are they not? ,Snuffaluffakuss,e8dhw64,SandersForPresident
">My concerns about the nature of media coverage in this country what ends up on the front pages, who determines what is important and what is not, that is kind of the thrust of my criticism.  
  
>But Trump's critique of mainstream media is something very very different, and in fact very dangerous. Trump claims that all of mainstream media is ""fake news"" not to be believed.  

>According to a member of the United States Congress there is one person in this country who can tell us the truth. 'It's not going to be in newspapers, it's not going to be on tv, it's not going to be in books', that is President Trump. Now what does that tell us about the future of American Democracy?  

>Our founders enshrined the press as the one profession specifically protected in the Bill of Rights. ""A well informed citizenry is necessary for Democracy to function correctly.""  

-Bernie Sanders, [June 22^nd '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCWRB9tSRIo)",Chartis,e8dj55c,SandersForPresident
"I don't know whether to cry or laugh when I see this sort of thing.

A lot of people don't seem to realize that Sanders and Mao are using two very different definitions of the word ""socialism"".

People will continue to make poor political decisions as long as historical illiteracy continues to go unchallenged.",HammerBioLizard,e8c78ph,SandersForPresident
"That'll keep Bubba on 45's side for shore. Dam furriners comin' to make mah truck more expensive, gotta be a bad thing.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e8c40c5,SandersForPresident
MAO NOW!  More than ever!!!,fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8nfhkd,SandersForPresident
"that's right. Bwahahahahaha

&#x200B;",spotries,e8cthqo,SandersForPresident
"you think that matters? To these morons, soshulism is when the gubment takes money out of their paycheck and gives it to someone else. It doesn't matter that it's not true; they need someone to blame for the fact they're poor white trash. Furriners, minorities, (imaginary) high taxes and liberals all fit the bill. ",spotries,e8ctova,SandersForPresident
">Simple. They receive billions of dollars from the fossil fuel industry.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157403216612908)",Chartis,e8d9w1q,SandersForPresident
Any asbestos truthers should be put into a room full of asbestos fibres and bury their face in it.,BopTheDrass,e8ej6lk,SandersForPresident
Nothing they haven't already done to every politician left of Mussolini since the 80s.,BopTheDrass,e8d12om,SandersForPresident
MAO NOW!  More than ever!!!,fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8e7spv,SandersForPresident
"Jane Sanders Retweeted [@Sifill_LDF:](https://twitter.com/Sifill_LDF/status/1054012779504517121)  

* It is my sincere hope that any media stories on the so-called “caravan” will take the time & responsibility to remind Americans about our country’s interference in places like Honduras & El Salvador that contributed to the conditions in those countries over decades.
   

[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1054360875811962881)  

* Donald Trump illegally didn’t pay taxes on more money than we send in foreign aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador combined per year.  


[James Zogby:](https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1054369424214581249)  


* Here he goes again! Trump replaying the racist fear of brown folk that he used in 2016. (The “unknown Middle Easterners” is a new line).  

[@JamilSmith:](https://twitter.com/JamilSmith/status/1054163071785037824)  

* Words matter. Is it AP style to call migrants an “army”—above a photo of mothers tending to their infants and toddlers, no less? This is not only incorrect, but it enables a racist narrative sold by this POTUS and his supporters. Armies invade. These people are running away.",Chartis,e8ddcmw,SandersForPresident
">[your ballot will be sent immediately after  your completed and signed application is received and processed by your local board of elections](http://www.elections.ny.gov/NYSBOE/download/voting/AbsenteeBallot-English.pdf)

>Contact your [local county board of elections](https://www.elections.ny.gov/countyboards.html) if you have not received your ballot  ",Chartis,e8dcsxt,SandersForPresident
Call your BOE if you haven't gotten yours. It took me a while to get mine.,Starbreaker10,e8f9l2p,SandersForPresident
Yep. They said it was sent out on Monday. Guess I gotta wait a few,CodeUmbra,e8feilf,SandersForPresident
The large left-leaning south american news agency TeleSur was shutdown from facebook about a month ago and many other independent media since then. I think it's really disturbing.,SpaceDetective,e8dbsxv,SandersForPresident
"A, MS and G love the H1-b, better East-Indians here than a whole new group of middle-class citizens.  Right?!

When you exchanged my middle-class status for student loans and being subservient to cheap East-Indians, I quit and let you take care of me.  

I recommend every American come to a similar question.  What is work worth if I have to tithe a billionaire to get it?  

Only entrepreneurs who can afford lawyers are free-citizens in this America.",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8e7cun,SandersForPresident
">Nearly 45 million people were kept out of poverty last year as a result of Social Security, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and other anti-poverty programs. But Trump and Republicans want to drastically cut those programs.

>It is a national embarrassment that in the richest country on earth we have millions of people wondering how they will afford their next meal, how they are going to be able to buy medicine for their illness or heat their homes in the wintertime. And Trump and Republicans want to make a bad situation worse for these people by cutting critical anti-poverty programs. We must strengthen these programs, not weaken them. Instead of talking about cutting Social Security or cutting nutrition programs, we should be expanding those programs.

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157401041177908)  ",Chartis,e8d4okt,SandersForPresident
"Wisconsin 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/registertovote): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://myvote.wi.gov/en-us/FindMyPollingPlace): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8fgpxp,SandersForPresident
I don't remember how many dems voted against the wars.  They need to be held as responsible for their actions as well.  No doubt the rep policies have sucked. Not much fiscal responsibility there,immrlizard,e8bwgu1,SandersForPresident
">Addressing global climate change will take millions of people -- particularly young people in Vermont and throughout the United States -- coming together and demanding bold action to move aggressively away from fossil fuels and toward energy efficiency and renewable energy. Shamefully, we have a president, a Congress, and now a Supreme Court who is delaying change. Meanwhile, scientists all over the world are telling us that climate change is real and is a result of human activity. We must act now.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157403218347908)",Chartis,e8dtn79,SandersForPresident
">The world's coolest snowboard outfitter just dropped the ""Burton Bernie Best Ever"" capsule, featuring a long sleeve T-shirt and a jacket inspired by the Vermont Senator, with one very simple message: Vote. The limited tee is made in the USA from 100 percent cotton, and is available online now. The jacket, also super limited, is only available at the two Burton stores in Burlington, Vermont, so phone a friend.",gideonvwainwright,e8cw6pp,SandersForPresident
"Now that is a vision. And I for one love it. I hope to be part of it when it happens. Power to the people, right on!",sparassis,e8cxyfb,SandersForPresident
"Oldster here. That slogan might ultimately do more harm than good, since it was originally the slogan of the Black Panthers.",LudovicoSpecs,e8d7ejn,SandersForPresident
We just need to propagate the idea so it can happen. ,resistancefm,e8czxip,SandersForPresident
"The term democratic socialism is already being demonized, I don't mind taking back anther phrase. ",resistancefm,e8db31m,SandersForPresident
"This debate was so disappointing. You might as well just had a democratic operative debating with a republican operative and just have them shout with each other. I think Seder is better than this. But he far too often just engages in completely partisan name calling and trashing of Republicans.

I disagree with Republicans as much as anyone else. But I still see them as human beings worthy of having discussions with. 

Wouldn't our time be better spent giving a voice to progressive movements or expanding on left-ist ideas than just trashing Republicans all the time? It's not even quality criticism of conservatives. It's alway something like ""Durrr!! This Republican is an idiot! Watch me OBLITERATE THEM!!!"". 

It was almost as disappointing as Seder hosting a panel at Politicon about socialism without a single self-identified socialist. ",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dmbx1,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](http://registertovote.ca.gov/): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/vote-mail/#apply): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8e7166,SandersForPresident
"Thank you for that. We need people talking about issues, not the ""they bad, smash them"" silliness of Us vs, Them. We don't need endless repeating of sound bites. We need real dialogue about real issues.",worldfusionwisdom,e8dvm9j,SandersForPresident
"Yeah. And he is that way against third parties too.

Anyone who gets in the way of his tribalistic affiliation to the democratic party is just an idiot who has to get destroyed. It's not helpful. I'd argue that it's not a left-ist position either.",IvoryTowerCapitalist,e8dwpux,SandersForPresident
"Well, that's the norm now: Democrats saying ""hate Republicans"" and Republicans saying ""hate Democrats."" I have no more respect for Democrats. After working for them for 25 years, they no longer deserve my loyalty. And I have no more respect for people who worship Bernie and repeat his every word as if he is a prophet. Bernie always said we should think for ourselves, not parrot him.",worldfusionwisdom,e8e0jk6,SandersForPresident
"I’m a complete progressive through and through. But I still cringe when I go to college parties and hear people talking about politics. I cringe because ik it’s an echo chamber and frankly the average person is just uninformed. I’ve been following politics heavily for the last few months and I admit I don’t know everything. So when I hear other people regurgitating talking points, it doesn’t sit well",carminedg123,e8m5hm0,SandersForPresident
"Well said. I agree - too many people don't want to hear any actual content anymore. They just want to hear ""yay us, boo them.""",worldfusionwisdom,e8nwuut,SandersForPresident
That’s a nice crowd ,lapacheco7,e8ccllo,SandersForPresident
"@realDonaldTrump:

* Republicans will totally protect people with Pre-Existing Conditions, Democrats will not! 

---  
  
>This new guidance allows states to set up parallel insurance markets that may be able to attract healthy people with plans that have lower premiums but fewer consumer protections, leaving ACA plans with a sicker pool and higher premiums  

-[Larry Levitt](https://www.huffingtonpost.ca/entry/pre-existing-protections-trump-aca_us_5bcdfa8de4b055bc94834521)  

>We’ll see a race to deregulate, with the result that comprehensive coverage will be more expensive for those who need it most  

-[Sabrina Corlette](https://www.huffingtonpost.ca/entry/pre-existing-protections-trump-aca_us_5bcdfa8de4b055bc94834521)  

---  

Monday’s announcement represents the latest in a series of GOP efforts:  

* [dramatic cuts in funding](https://ccf.georgetown.edu/2018/07/11/trump-hits-obamacare-again-nearly-wiping-out-funds-for-outreach/) for enrollment outreach and promotion
* [a change in federal regulations](https://www.huffingtonpost.ca/entry/trump-short-term-obamacare-sabotage_us_5b168a07e4b093ac33a201a4) that will allow people to hold on to limited-benefit, “short-term” plans for nearly three years. 
* [repeal of the individual mandate’s financial penalty](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/01/30/trump-touts-repeal-of-obamacare-individual-mandate.html) for people who don’t have comprehensive coverage  

>Giving people more assistance if they buy short-term or other alternative plans and less assistance if they stick with comprehensive coverage... even though that means more exposure to medical bills.

>Republicans have rejected bolstering the Affordable Care Act’s financial assistance, using government to control prices and creating new public plans that can offer alternative coverage.

>[A lawsuit against the Affordable Care Act](https://theincidentaleconomist.com/wordpress/a-feeble-constitutional-challenge/) that GOP officials in 20 states launched is before a federal judge. The Trump administration, filed a [brief in support of the plaintiff’s claim](https://www.justice.gov/file/1069806/download) about the law’s constitutionality.
",Chartis,e8dbqvl,SandersForPresident
"His website is really vague with the policy ideas. Where does he stand on single payer, tuition free college, etc.? (I live in Arizona so i'm curious)",RetroPink,e8c7v04,SandersForPresident
"Now let's test appropriate taxation.  Bet that works too!?  

21st century man still testing the bounds of reason vs reaction.  Sorry Socrates, it's the best we can do as just animals.",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8coak6,SandersForPresident
">A job must lift workers out of poverty, not keep them in it. We must follow cities across the country like Seattle and raise the federal minimum wage which hasn’t been raised since 2009 from a starvation wage of $7.25 an hour to $15 an hour. Increasing the federal minimum wage would directly benefit 62 million workers who currently make less than $15 an hour, including over half of African-American workers and close to 60 percent of Latino workers.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979353618786299)",Chartis,e8cglt0,SandersForPresident
"As funny as these interviews can be, it’s very unnerving to grasp the fact that there are so many Americans at this level of willful ignorance.",mashpotatocat,e8chy79,SandersForPresident
">Karl Marx. Vladimir Lenin. Mao Zedong. Elizabeth Warren?

>The White House Council of Economic Advisers on Tuesday published a 72-page report criticizing what it described as the socialist ideas of leading Democratic Party politicians, and seeking to link President Trump’s political rivals with figures reviled by most Americans.

>The document departs from the council’s long tradition of delivering sober, albeit partisan, studies on current questions confronting economic policymakers, such as the value of tax cuts or the effects of increased corporate concentration. Instead, the report seeks to tar Democrats by linking them with the failed economic policies of communist governments in China, the Soviet Union and other countries.

>The word “socialism” appears 144 times — on average, twice a page.

>In case the point was lost on anyone, the message was driven home by a follow-up release from the White House press office with the headline “Congressional Democrats Want to Take Money From Hardworking Americans to Fund Failed Socialist Policies.”

>The report does not shy away from lumping in liberal politicians and their policy proposals, such as Medicare for All and tuition-free college, with the atrocities committed by authoritarian regimes. For example, it compares Lenin’s demonization of kulaks, or yeoman farmers, to Ms. Warren’s critiques of the behavior of some large corporations. The report asserts that both are attacks on “oppressors of the vulnerable.”",gideonvwainwright,e8bwjkk,SandersForPresident
">**Bernie, meet Mao**

>The report opens by asserting that “socialism is making a comeback in American political discourse.” The word itself is certainly enjoying a revival. A handful of high-profile politicians, including Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a candidate for a House seat from New York, call themselves “democratic socialists.” A Gallup poll this year found that 51 percent of respondents between the ages of 18 and 29 had a positive view of socialism, however they defined the term.

>The report acknowledges that these democratic socialists don’t see themselves as the heirs of, say, Lenin. It specifically notes that they’re not advocating violence. But it nonetheless seeks to connect liberals and their policy proposals to past socialist regimes.

>“There are proposals on the table, like the ‘Medicare for All’ proposal, that are very consistent with the design of socialism,” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the council, told reporters during a conference call to discuss the report on Tuesday.

>The report frequently adopts the facile tactic of comparing or lumping leading liberal politicians and demagogues. 

>For example:

>>The Chinese leader Mao Zedong, who cited Marxism as the model for his country, described “the ruthless economic exploitation and political oppression of the peasants by the landlord class” (Cotterell 2011, chap. 6). **Expressing similar concerns, current American senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have stated that “large corporations . . . exploit human misery and insecurity, and turn them into huge profits” and “giant corporations . . . exploit workers just to boost their own profits.**

>And here:

>>**The socialist narrative names the oppressors of the vulnerable, such as the bourgeoisie (Marx), kulaks (Lenin), landlords (Mao), and giant corporations (Sanders and Warren).** Piketty (2014) concludes that the Soviet approach and other attempts to “abolish private ownership” should at least be admired for being “more logically consistent.”

>And even in the footnotes:

>>**“Speculators” are also blamed for high prices and other social problems, as by Marx, Stalin, Senator Sanders, Senator Warren, and Fidel Castro, who said that they “have turned the planet into a giant casino.”**

>**Sweden is no paradise, especially for pickup trucks**

>When liberals speak fondly of democratic socialism, they often point to Scandinavia — and a set of higher-tax countries that provide more robust government services and safety nets to their citizens. The report acknowledges this — and then walks a fine line around it.

>First, the council notes all the ways that Nordic countries don’t necessarily comport with a liberal ideal of government, including a heavy middle-class tax burden and lighter-than-you-might-expect regulation of business.

",gideonvwainwright,e8bx0ng,SandersForPresident
the GOP calling someone a communist. What else is new?,BopTheDrass,e8d180y,SandersForPresident
"- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)
- [Donate to Bernie's tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  
- [Donate only to Bernie](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-reddit)    
- [Petition to rename the Saudi embassy address in Washington to Jamal Khashoggi Way](https://www.change.org/p/mayor-muriel-bowser-rename-address-of-saudi-arabian-embassy-in-washington-into-jamal-khashoggi-street)",Chartis,e899dtp,SandersForPresident
">President Trump said that weapons sales were more important to him than holding Saudi Arabia accountable for the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. U.S. arms contractors are now expressing concern about those weapons sales. We must be very clear: getting to the truth of what happened to Mr. Khashoggi and holding the perpetrators accountable is more important than defense contractor profits. The time is long overdue for us to reevaluate the US-Saudi relationship and ask whether it is actually advancing American interests and values.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157391702507908)",Chartis,e89f8wl,SandersForPresident
I want Bernie to debate Trump so fucking badly,CreamyGoodnss,e8acbg0,SandersForPresident
I love that Bernie has been challenging Trump’s ego lately. Might actually be the best way to get him to do something.,spectre_2,e89g8av,SandersForPresident
I want to see Bernie say this to Donald's face. Bernie 2020.,johnskiddles,e8a20hi,SandersForPresident
Ah I love this guy!,eatplov,e89t6bp,SandersForPresident
"Bernie knows how to hit Trump where it hurts-- the issues. And since he is strongest on policy of any potential Democratic presidential candidate, he is the best bet to take on Trump.",filmantopia,e8a1ny4,SandersForPresident
Savage,Dicethrower,e8ab4pl,SandersForPresident
Because he probably wishes he could.,Arb3395,e89v6if,SandersForPresident
He's a coward just like all the Republicans.,YetToBeDetermined,e89yfdp,SandersForPresident
Let's not forget locking up children for having parents who dared to seek a better life.,subLimb,e8a4290,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8ajmhl,SandersForPresident
"You have to wonder why too. I mean, maybe Putin has the dirt on him, but not all of these guys would. Why does his base tolerate him sucking up to people who are really horrible to their own citizens and who threaten the US? It's not like they can hurt Trump. He has the US military to protect him. What's his problem?",Graymouzer,e8a140g,SandersForPresident
"What is Bernie doing about the CIA murdering journalists?  If Bernie wants to show how tough he is, then he can take on that one.  ",pby1000,e8ap7x0,SandersForPresident
Bernie's right. We need to take over Saudi Arabia and install a peoples government ASAP,Ranidaphobia,e89ejai,SandersForPresident
"At this moment Trump owns the RepublicanParty. If you are not part of the TrumpCult, YOU MUST VOTE DEMOCRAT, it does not matter if you are a Republican, a Democrat or another political orientation.
It is necessary to save politics in the US, including the Republican Party.
The Trump Cult call them RATs (RepublicansAgainstTrump) They think RATs Are Traitors to the Party, basically because Trump owns the party. 
Today to be a Republican you must kiss the ring of Trump.",Vamparael,e89g6yy,SandersForPresident
If we make it happen [it's gonna be yuge!](https://i.imgur.com/9n79Llo.jpg),Chartis,e8acmta,SandersForPresident
"unfortunately, many narcissists ignore such challenges based on the flawed logic that ""if they don't understand my greatness, they're not worth my time.""",drummer_San,e89vs73,SandersForPresident
"[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>His leadership on issues such as a $15 minimum wage, free public higher education and labor rights makes him the clearest, most consistent and, yes, [the most popular](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png) voice on the political Left...   

>He’s a battletested, nonpartisan ideologue with a record as long as it is reflective of political integrity. From gay equality to the Iraq War, Sanders’ ability to get it right so often isn’t just luck—it’s indicative of his commitment to principles over party, politics or donors.",Chartis,e8a1s8c,SandersForPresident
"That is the only way.   

And honestly would we not get better candidates if that’s what we focused on int the first place ? ",itshorriblebeer,e8a7urv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8an4k1,SandersForPresident
">I do have concerns about past activities of the CIA. CIA was involved in the overthrow of a gentleman named Mohammad Mosaddegh way back when in Iran, overthrew him on behalf of British oil.

>And you know what happened? That led to the Iranian Revolution and we are where we are today.

>The CIA was involved in the overthrow of Salvador Allende in Chile, a democratic candidate, he won a fair election, the CIA overthrew him.

>So I have a lot problems with some parts of our history, which continues, by the way, to the present. 

-[Bernie](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2016/02/24/sanders_i_no_longer_want_to_abolish_the_cia_but_i_have_a_lot_of_problems_with_their_activities.html)",Chartis,e8aq5f8,SandersForPresident
He never said that.,Chartis,e89exug,SandersForPresident
"We should start with just not supporting the current odious regime in Saudi Arabia... don't need to go from one extreme to the other immediately. But yes I do believe in ""encouraging"" a rebellion there but more along the lines of slowly training citizens to understand democratic procedures. Not ""militarily taking over the country"".",LackingLack,e89l49g,SandersForPresident
You have the reading comprehension of Trump. ,MostSensualPrimate,e89vh5j,SandersForPresident
That’s the stupidest thing someone has said since Iraq. How many more countries do we need to fuck up because we want to install “pro American” governments,carminedg123,e89hl8v,SandersForPresident
"How many times can you fail to understand this never works? I know it's against US doctrine, but the military is good for nothing more than a deterrent. Forceful take over hasn't worked since ww1 and ww2, and even in both  of those cases all defenders won. I think you need to go back 2 centuries to even find a war where the aggressors won with something to show for it. ",Dicethrower,e8ab65b,SandersForPresident
"The political reality is a lot more convoluted and detailed than the black and white perspective you describe.  Voting Democrat just because they aren't Republican is what got us Trump in the first place and is the equal-but-opposite of ""BUT HER EMAILS!""

I will happily vote for a candidate on the R side of the ticket if one comes along that truly believes in personal accountability, small government, low taxes, fiscal responsibility, and *responsible*(<<<I can't stress that enough) firearm laws.

Politics is way to complicated to try and draw an ""us vs them"" line in the sand.  That just makes matters worse.",drummer_San,e89vq1h,SandersForPresident
"Thanks for the information.  I hope that Bernie will be on the righht side of history, but right now we need to destroy the NWO globalist cabal.  ",pby1000,e8b2pi2,SandersForPresident
"
>In order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism, we need an international movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity, security and dignity for all people, and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists, not only in wealth but in political power.

>We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a global order based on human solidarity, an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity, that we all want our children to grow up healthy, to have a good education, have decent jobs, drink clean water, breathe clean air and to live in peace. Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who shares these values, and who are fighting for a better world.

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other. We know that those forces work together across borders. We must do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)

>We must develop an international movement that takes on the greed and ideology of the billionaire class and leads us to a world of economic, social and environmental justice.

>A new and international progressive movement must commit itself to tackling structural inequality both between and within nations. Such a movement must overcome “the cult of money” and “survival of the fittest” mentalities that the pope warned against. It must support national and international policies aimed at raising standards of living for poor and working-class people. We must rein in corporate power and prevent the environmental destruction of our planet as a result of climate change.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Jan 14^th '18](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/jan/14/power-billionaires-bernie-sanders-poverty-life-expectancy-climate-change)  

>It is a global issue, one that reaches across oceans and continents as oligarchy, authoritarianism, and kleptocracy spread from country to country, and democratic institutions fight for their survival.

>In order to fight this trend, we need to strengthen the global coalition of progressive democrats. While authoritarians promote division and hatred, we will promote unity, inclusion, and an agenda based on economic, social, racial, and environmental justice. Internationally, we must have the courage to take on the global oligarchy and bring power to the many, not the few. This world belongs to all of us.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 21^st '18](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)

>We will be safer when people throughout the world get to know each other, and understand the common humanity that they have... let us try to destroy the hatred that exists throughout the world based on fear and ignorance by allowing people to get to know one another.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/7RVIdUSuVbE?t=1125)

>It makes us safer when we reach out to people throughout the world in ways that bring us together... We are a safer country and a safer planet when we do our best to rid the ignornace and hatred which exists all over the world. Find and discover we have a common humanity... we have a lot more in common than we have in opposition. We can reduce hatred and bigotry in that way. Dialog should be taking place between people throughout the world at the grassroots level. 

-Bernie Sanders, [June 18^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0NJvL4iLUPI&feature=youtu.be&t=1004)",Chartis,e89lemk,SandersForPresident
"This is not that complicated.  

The only gop members that spoke out were retiring and the rest .. if they had any sense to begin with are cow towing to this wannabe dictator. 

It’s simple.  Vote them out. ",itshorriblebeer,e8a7tb2,SandersForPresident
"Time and time again Democrats have shown they will try to be bi-partisan.  Time and time again Republicans have refused to reach across the aisle.  Your sensibilities are very well... sensible, but they are not shared by the other side.  When you cast your vote for a Republican you aren't casting your vote not in favor of the sane Republican you voted for but the all the insane ones who will benefit from another Republican seat.

&#x200B;

Vote instead for progressives, who just happen to be under the Democratic label at this time, but their goals are not as simple as single issue voting like most on the Republican / Democratic tickets.  Most of these guys are looking to reform the system to be more representative than FPTP and will try to push to make it so you can vote for the option that is most representative of your interests instead of playing political football every year.

&#x200B;

This administration has really shown it wants to push the envelope on breaking our system of government by blocking our law enforcment from investigating corruption, by ignoring the emoulments clause in the constitution, and by working against securing our elections / supressing voters who disagree with them.   You might not think that the person you vote for isn't going to tow that part of the party line but if it gets something passed on their agenda as well they will have an obligation to their constituations and will capitulate. ",Ceryn,e8av8wt,SandersForPresident
"Do not bring more butter knives to a gunfight, is time to use les logical and ethical arguments.  ",Vamparael,e89webt,SandersForPresident
">It is important that we understand that what we are seeing now in the world is the rise of a new authoritarian axis:  

* Donald Trump and the right-wing movement 
* Jair Bolsonaro “The Donald Trump of Brazil” 
* Saudi Arabia is a despotic dictatorship. Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman is very close with Presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner
* Israel’s Netanyahu government  
* Russian President Vladimir Putin whose intervention in our 2016 presidential election Trump still fails to fully admit. He really doesn’t understand what has happened, or he is under Russian influence 
* Orban in Hungary
* Erdogan in Turkey
* Duterte in the Philippines 
* North Korea’s Kim Jong Un  
* United Arab Emirates' undemocratic regime  
* Qatar's undemocratic regime  


>In order to effectively combat the forces of global oligarchy and authoritarianism, we need an international movement that mobilizes behind a vision of shared prosperity, security and dignity for all people, and that addresses the massive global inequality that exists, not only in wealth but in political power.

>We must take the opportunity to reconceptualize a global order based on human solidarity, an order that recognizes that every person on this planet shares a common humanity, that we all want our children to grow up healthy, to have a good education, have decent jobs, drink clean water, breathe clean air and to live in peace. Our job is to reach out to those in every corner of the world who shares these values, and who are fighting for a better world.

>Authoritarians seek power by promoting division and hatred. We will promote unity and inclusion.

>In a time of exploding wealth and technology, we have the potential to create a decent life for all people. Our job is to build on our common humanity and do everything that we can to oppose all of the forces, whether unaccountable government power or unaccountable corporate power, who try to divide us up and set us against each other. We know that those forces work together across borders. We must do the same.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 9^th '18](https://medium.com/@SenSanders/building-a-global-democratic-movement-to-counter-authoritarianism-46832e3beef6)

>We must develop an international movement that takes on the greed and ideology of the billionaire class and leads us to a world of economic, social and environmental justice.

>A new and international progressive movement must commit itself to tackling structural inequality both between and within nations. Such a movement must overcome “the cult of money” and “survival of the fittest” mentalities that the pope warned against. It must support national and international policies aimed at raising standards of living for poor and working-class people. We must rein in corporate power and prevent the environmental destruction of our planet as a result of climate change.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Jan 14^th '18](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2018/jan/14/power-billionaires-bernie-sanders-poverty-life-expectancy-climate-change)  

>It is a global issue, one that reaches across oceans and continents as oligarchy, authoritarianism, and kleptocracy spread from country to country, and democratic institutions fight for their survival.

>In order to fight this trend, we need to strengthen the global coalition of progressive democrats. While authoritarians promote division and hatred, we will promote unity, inclusion, and an agenda based on economic, social, racial, and environmental justice. Internationally, we must have the courage to take on the global oligarchy and bring power to the many, not the few. This world belongs to all of us.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 21^st '18](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)

>We will be safer when people throughout the world get to know each other, and understand the common humanity that they have... let us try to destroy the hatred that exists throughout the world based on fear and ignorance by allowing people to get to know one another.

-Bernie Sanders, [June 12^th '18](https://youtu.be/7RVIdUSuVbE?t=1125)

>It makes us safer when we reach out to people throughout the world in ways that bring us together... We are a safer country and a safer planet when we do our best to rid the ignornace and hatred which exists all over the world. Find and discover we have a common humanity... we have a lot more in common than we have in opposition. We can reduce hatred and bigotry in that way. Dialog should be taking place between people throughout the world at the grassroots level. 

-Bernie Sanders, [June 18^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0NJvL4iLUPI&feature=youtu.be&t=1004)",Chartis,e8b2yot,SandersForPresident
"again with the hardline, black and white arguments.  Bernie represents moderation in this world of corruption.  He is a realistic person trying to appeal to every day people, not parties.

Again I say, ""Us vs them"" is not the way that Bernie supporters are going to win in 2018/2020.

",drummer_San,e8a0srd,SandersForPresident
There should be an international version of the BDS movement for Saudi Arabia like there is for Israel. ,Th3Hon3yBadg3r,e8b1buv,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/socialism] [Voting Guide California Ballot Measures Nov 6 2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/socialism/comments/9qu8pu/voting_guide_california_ballot_measures_nov_6_2018/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8bszza,SandersForPresident
"I wrote about exactly this here: [https://medium.com/@jakevarghese/dual-tiered-minimum-wage-dbec2733e6ea](https://medium.com/@jakevarghese/dual-tiered-minimum-wage-dbec2733e6ea)

&#x200B;

It's basically the same idea.",jake3030,e8ba9af,SandersForPresident
"$15/h is also politically expedient:    

[@GunnelsWarren:](https://twitter.com/GunnelsWarren/status/1052750263583469569)    

* What do the Democrats stand for?   

 “Let’s all join the Fight for 15. And I’ll tell you one thing for sure: if we win the election, in the first 100 hours, we will pass a $15 minimum wage."" [@NancyPelosi](https://twitter.com/NancyPelosi)

 Let's win this thing & fight to make certain this pledge comes true.

[DNC Platform: Raising Workers’ Wages](https://democrats.org/about/party-platform/#raising-wages)  

>Democrats believe that the current minimum wage is a starvation wage and must be increased to a living wage. No one who works full time should have to raise a family in poverty. We believe that Americans should earn at least $15 an hour and have the right to form or join a union and will work in every way we can—in Congress and the federal government, in states and with the private sector—to reach this goal. We should raise the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour over time and index it, give all Americans the ability to join a union regardless of where they work, and create new ways for workers to have power in the economy so every worker can earn at least $15 an hour. We applaud the approaches taken by states like New York and California. We also support creating one fair wage for all workers by ending the sub-minimum wage for tipped workers and people with disabilities.

>Democrats support a model employer executive order or some other vehicle to leverage federal dollars to support employers who provide their workers with a living wage, good benefits, and the opportunity to form a union without reprisal. The one trillion dollars spent annually by the government on contracts, loans, and grants should be used to support good jobs that rebuild the middle class.

",Chartis,e8bhe7s,SandersForPresident
"It would likely be higher than Bernie's proposed legislation for the majority of the population: https://nlihc.org/oor  

Bernie's Raise The Wage Act [S.1242](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1242/text) and H.R.15 do index the wage In order to ensure that a workers' wages remain sufficient to provide the basics of life:  

>$9.25 an hour, beginning on the effective date;  
$10.10 an hour, beginning 1 year after such effective date;  
$11.00 an hour, beginning 2 years after such effective date;  
$12.00 an hour, beginning 3 years after such effective date;  
$13.00 an hour, beginning 4 years after such effective date;  
$13.50 an hour, beginning 5 years after such effective date;  
$14.25 an hour, beginning 6 years after such effective date;  
$15.00 an hour, beginning 7 years after such effective date; and   
beginning on the date that is 8 years after such effective date, and annually thereafter, the amount determined by the Secretary under subsection (h)  

>The wage determined under this subsection for a year shall be increased from such amount by the annual percentage increase, if any, in the median hourly wage of all employees as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. ",Chartis,e8bf7qf,SandersForPresident
"Wow, yeah. I'm for it. It sounds great but how will businesses survive that?",Flashmasterson,e8bfsfq,SandersForPresident
"Is raising it just a dollar a year sufficient when we look at average cost of rent (depending on the area) ?  


Take a look at what jake3030 posted  


[https://medium.com/@jakevarghese/dual-tiered-minimum-wage-dbec2733e6ea](https://medium.com/@jakevarghese/dual-tiered-minimum-wage-dbec2733e6ea)",Flashmasterson,e8bip86,SandersForPresident
"If we do it with the Housing Affordability idea I talked about at the bottom of the article then it wont be that bad for business.  

Small businesses can be graded up while large multinational corporations will be fine.",jake3030,e8blw7z,SandersForPresident
"I'd say it's marginally adequate but very welcome starting point. Combined with other legislation and local laws like the [$30/h wage that Nomiki Konst is advocating for](https://theintercept.com/2018/09/26/nomiki-konst-new-york-city-public-advocate-election/) it's worthwhile IMO. I like that idea though.  

S.???? - ""[The most sweeping climate change legislation ever introduced.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SkTTHop3DiI&feature=youtu.be)""

[S.3542 - Too Big To Fail, Too Big Too Exist Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3542/text)  

[S.3410 - Stop Bad Employers by Zeroing Out Subsidies Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3410)  


[S.3498 - Democracy Day Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3498/text)  

[S.3271 - No Money Bail Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3271)  

[S.3147 - Social Security Administration Fairness Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/3147)  

[S.2810 - Workplace Democracy Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2810)  

[S.2691 - Opioid Crisis Accountability Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2691)  

[S.2165 - Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands Equitable Rebuild Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2165)  

[S.2011 - Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/2011)

[S.1804 - Medicare for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1804)  

[S.1723 - Strengthening Veterans Health Care Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1723)

[S.1590 - Employ Young Americans Now Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1590)  

[S.1564 - Guaranteed Paid Vacation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/senate-bill/1564)

[S.1441 - Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1441)  

[S.1242 - Raise the Wage Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1242)  

[S.1082 - United States Employee Ownership Bank Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1082)  

[S.1081 - WORK Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1081)  

[S.1076 - Keep Our Pension Promises Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/1076)  

[S.806 - College for All Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/806)  

[S.805 - Inclusive Prosperity Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/805)  

[S.586 - Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/586)  

[S.469 - Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/469)  

[S.427 - Social Security Expansion Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-bill/427)",Chartis,e8bjccv,SandersForPresident
"I'm getting an ""Oops that page can't be found"" when I click on this link:  [important role in creating the affordability crisis](http://cnycn.org/2016/04/18/house-flipping-is-a-flop-for-nyc-neighborhoods/)",Flashmasterson,e8by00z,SandersForPresident
"Thanks for putting this together. I hope Nomiki succeeds with her plans. 

And there's a bunch of legislation Bernie proposed. I hope his victory is a landslide in 2020. His name recognition now compared to 2016 + all the time and energy he's spent trying to get decent lives for different labor  groups is going to have a profound effect on his chances in 2 years.",Flashmasterson,e8bn6u1,SandersForPresident
"Sorry, it looks like the source changed how they do links.  I have updated the article and here is the new link: [https://cnycn.org/house-flipping-is-a-flop-for-nyc-neighborhoods/](https://cnycn.org/house-flipping-is-a-flop-for-nyc-neighborhoods/)

&#x200B;

That site has SEVERAL articles on the damage house flipping causes which you can see here: [https://cnycn.org/?s=flip](https://cnycn.org/?s=flip)

&#x200B;

Thanks for catching that!

&#x200B;",jake3030,e8byj9z,SandersForPresident
"All he is trying to do is ""to protect the minority of the opulent against the majority""

He's a real patriot and James Madison would be proud!",scamp_19,e8bnr1l,SandersForPresident
">Politicians like Brian Kemp who try to deny the vote to people because they might vote against them are political cowards. Brian Kemp knows his ideas are wildly unpopular, so the only way he can win is by suppressing the vote. We will not let him get away with it.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979352972119697)",Chartis,e8btjrm,SandersForPresident
"JAMAL KHASHOGGI: ""No, I don’t think he can. But if there is no one—first of all, there is no political movement in Saudi Arabia that could pressure him, number one. And the world is happy with him. Do you see anybody in America who is—except for Bernie Sanders, who is calling for putting pressure on Mohammed bin Salman? I only saw Bernie Sanders, but no one else. I’m sure the Americans are not going to apply pressure to Mohammed bin Salman, unless a true crisis happens in Saudi Arabia.""",Forest_of_Mirrors,e8byr58,SandersForPresident
half is rookie numbers democrats.  you need to pump those up.  i thought we cared about unity,StormalongJuan,e8cpeaz,SandersForPresident
"Jane Sanders Retweeted [@Sifill_LDF:](https://twitter.com/Sifill_LDF/status/1054012779504517121)  

* It is my sincere hope that any media stories on the so-called “caravan” will take the time & responsibility to remind Americans about our country’s interference in places like Honduras & El Salvador that contributed to the conditions in those countries over decades.
   

[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1054360875811962881)  

* Donald Trump illegally didn’t pay taxes on more money than we send in foreign aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador combined per year.  


[James Zogby:](https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1054369424214581249)  


* Here he goes again! Trump replaying the racist fear of brown folk that he used in 2016. (The “unknown Middle Easterners” is a new line).  

[@JamilSmith:](https://twitter.com/JamilSmith/status/1054163071785037824)  

* Words matter. Is it AP style to call migrants an “army”—above a photo of mothers tending to their infants and toddlers, no less? This is not only incorrect, but it enables a racist narrative sold by this POTUS and his supporters. Armies invade. These people are running away.",Chartis,e8ba3a2,SandersForPresident
https://ourrevolution.com/docs/our-revolution-endorsement-process,Chartis,e8bpez6,SandersForPresident
"I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/political_revolution] [We can do better than 9 points!](https://www.reddit.com/r/Political_Revolution/comments/9qw3yx/we_can_do_better_than_9_points/)

&nbsp;*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*",TotesMessenger,e8c8kq3,SandersForPresident
"I didn't even listen, this picture alone! It's the face I imagine myself making when I think about him lmfao",Onlymeinmi,e8cpcky,SandersForPresident
"Jane Sanders Retweeted [@Sifill_LDF:](https://twitter.com/Sifill_LDF/status/1054012779504517121)  

* It is my sincere hope that any media stories on the so-called “caravan” will take the time & responsibility to remind Americans about our country’s interference in places like Honduras & El Salvador that contributed to the conditions in those countries over decades.
   

[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1054360875811962881)  

* Donald Trump illegally didn’t pay taxes on more money than we send in foreign aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador combined per year.  


[James Zogby:](https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1054369424214581249)  


* Here he goes again! Trump replaying the racist fear of brown folk that he used in 2016. (The “unknown Middle Easterners” is a new line).  

[@JamilSmith:](https://twitter.com/JamilSmith/status/1054163071785037824)  

* Words matter. Is it AP style to call migrants an “army”—above a photo of mothers tending to their infants and toddlers, no less? This is not only incorrect, but it enables a racist narrative sold by this POTUS and his supporters. Armies invade. These people are running away.",Chartis,e8cg9wd,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[Early Voting Starts](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e8csnkg,SandersForPresident
">One of the great miracles of the modern age is that a nuclear weapon has not been used in warfare since 1945. Presidents of both parties have long understood that the goal of international negotiations must be to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, not expand them. Apparently our current president does not agree. Congress must not allow Trump to unleash a dangerous and costly nuclear arms race and threaten millions of lives.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979107752144219)  ",Chartis,e8bd22e,SandersForPresident
Let's show how insane everyone else is being by being even more insane. That'll show 'em.,L0gical_Parad0x,e8bicny,SandersForPresident
We have had semi competent leadership until now.  ,immrlizard,e8be78p,SandersForPresident
">We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. You have to do things that get you really nervous. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Sometimes it's hard. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances, getting nervous, getting your feelings hurt every now and then. That's how you grow. That's how you grow.   

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  
",Chartis,e8bcxf6,SandersForPresident
"[@burtonsnowboard:](https://twitter.com/burtonsnowboard/status/1054752515265388546)

* It’s a simple message that says a lot, and to support the cause, our founder Jake Burton will be making a donation to the Sanders Institute. 

[Long Sleeve T](https://www.burton.com/us/en/p/bernie-best-ever-long-sleeve-t-shirt/W19-215141.html  )  

Doesn't look like the Jacket is up yet.
",Chartis,e8buemr,SandersForPresident
"May I ask: How republicans can cut social security and medicare? People contributed for years for their future social security and medicare, those money should be separated from normal government budget, should not?",GraceWan1973,e8bh1kv,SandersForPresident
"Yup, even Reagan knew Social Security wasn't a valid target:  

>Social Security has nothing to do with the deficit. Social Security is totally funded by the payroll tax levied on employer and employee.  

>If you reduce the outgo of Social Security, that money would not go into the general fund to reduce the deficit. It would go into the Social Security Trust Fund. 

>So Social Security has nothing to do with balancing a budget or erasing or lowering the deficit.

-[Ronald Reagan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckLumNXm000)",Chartis,e8bh7un,SandersForPresident
"This is pretty big news because it shows that the national survey completed by Reuters was not a fluke or in error when it showed that 70% of Americans and 52% of republicans now support medicare for all.  In fact it's kind of amazing that these two separate surveys showed basically the exact same level of support from Americans and republicans.  One number that did change a little was that in the Reuters survey 84% of democrats supported medicare for all while in this latest survey by the HarrisX polling company 92% of democrats said they support it.  The latest poll also shows that 68% of independents (the largest voting block) now support medicare for all.

Edit - These two surveys combined cement the fact that a vast majority of Americans support medicare for all and that we need not be hesitant but rather extremely confident when saying as much.",Antarctica-1,e8a4c08,SandersForPresident
"My rightwing coworker complains about Obamacare all the time. I said, “how would you fix it” he said “single payer” I was just like....wtf, really? That’s what we wanted. You’re absurd. ",Exadory,e8ab087,SandersForPresident
"This does make sense given the way things have gone in this country.

Center left won in 2008 and took a crack at fixing our healthcare system. They failed.

Trump/far right/populist right/whatever the fuck he is won in 2016 and took a crack at ""fixing"" healthcare which for them meant just taking healthcare from the people the ACA helped.

So who else can you turn to for solutions? The problems continues to get worse, the center failed, the right failed, the only thing left is the ""radical"" solution of expanding the most popular existing health insurance plan to cover everyone.

Media is incredibly behind in their coverage of the issue. They continue to act like it's the 90's and no one wants their taxes to go up at all no matter what, and no one trusts the government with healthcare. Those hard liners are now on the fringes at this point.",The_Popular_Populist,e8a7m3z,SandersForPresident
">What happens when an idea catches fire, when people see the justice of that idea, it moves very quickly. That is what is happening with Medicare for All. Democrats, Republicans and Independents are sick and tired our dysfunctional health care system which makes incredible profits for insurance companies and leaves ordinary people deeply in debt. The American people regardless of party are embracing Medicare for All - commonsense solution to guarantee health care to everyone in this country.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1979058625482465)",Chartis,e8b3zua,SandersForPresident
"Until they vote for candidates who support single payer, it doesn't really matter.",pablonieve,e8byh6c,SandersForPresident
"didn't you get the memo,  we were supposed to be talking about trump and the Russians every day.  instead you went and and educated the population on polices that would benefit their lives.  #Unity",StormalongJuan,e8angbm,SandersForPresident
" I'd love to see everyone get one free physical/primary care visit a year. As long as there is soda, candy, cheap fast food, cigarettes, and booze health care costs will unfortunately be high. I believe in personal liberty and if you disregard the information your PCP tells you then that's on you and not the nation. I do think though we should give everyone one visit a year and make it longer then then required 25 minute medicare mandated time. Especially since medicare has screwed that up since the majority of the time the Doctor is documenting in the EMR and not paying attention to the patient. ",babaoriley5,e8b0z5d,SandersForPresident
Then why do they keep voting for people who don't?,Vash63,e8ary77,SandersForPresident
"Cutting out the middle-men, reducing wastes, and operating as a [monopsony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopsony) is very efficient.
  
Removing the middle-broker bureaucracy will save physicians [9 hours a week](https://www.commondreams.org/views/2018/09/11/medicare-all-and-myth-40-physician-pay-cut) and [moral](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/8/10/17676632/voxcare-single-payer-medicare-for-all-doctors-lobbyists) and [cash.](http://www.pnhp.org/news/2018/august/why-doctors-are-warming-to-medicare-for-all)  

S.1804 doesn't just provide Medicare for all, it also expands & improves Medicare significantly (and given that it's the most popular health care plan that's saying something).",Chartis,e8b19xr,SandersForPresident
"I respect the enthusiast but as a healthcare provider, it's the medicare requirements that have declined healthcare.  If you have ever been to the doctor in the last 5 years, how much personal interaction have you received or have the spent the entire time documenting on the computer?  ",babaoriley5,e8b159f,SandersForPresident
"[copied from my response elsewhere:]

Cutting out the middle-men, reducing wastes, and operating as a [monopsony](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopsony) is very efficient.
  
Removing the middle-broker bureaucracy will save physicians [9 hours a week](https://www.commondreams.org/views/2018/09/11/medicare-all-and-myth-40-physician-pay-cut) and [moral](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/8/10/17676632/voxcare-single-payer-medicare-for-all-doctors-lobbyists) and [cash.](http://www.pnhp.org/news/2018/august/why-doctors-are-warming-to-medicare-for-all)  

S.1804 doesn't just provide Medicare for all, it also expands & improves Medicare significantly (and given that it's the most popular health care plan that's saying something).",Chartis,e8b1kky,SandersForPresident
"Not a war, but a genocide. War implies there are two opposing military forces. No. The Saudis are simply decimating Yemen with little in the way of backlash.",BopTheDrass,e8ax6s6,SandersForPresident
"[@mattduss:](https://twitter.com/mattduss/status/1054735367000260610)  

* Sens. Sanders, Lee, and Murphy offered a resolution ([SJ Res 54](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/senate-joint-resolution/54)) earlier this year to do exactly that. The Senate will be voting on it again next month.",Chartis,e8ar73q,SandersForPresident
"One that puts corporate profits before healthcare, that was pretty obvious.",ltburch,e89br8h,SandersForPresident
I'm surprised it's as low as 1 in 5.,InVultusSolis,e8ajhxc,SandersForPresident
"This is prescription drugs alone, not even including things like surgeries ",BopTheDrass,e8b3rn4,SandersForPresident
">This is the new Jim Crow. The Republican candidate for governor in Georgia is actively sitting on voter registration applications from black people and has purged hundreds of thousands off the voter rolls. The Republican candidate for Senate in Florida is also the person in charge of deciding if former felons can have their rights restored. The Supreme Court allowed North Dakota to implement a voter ID law that will disenfranchise Native Americans. Last year, there were 99 bills introduced to diminish voter access in state legislatures. Democracy itself is on the ballot this year.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157401147577908)  ",Chartis,e8b3xxl,SandersForPresident
">When Trump says the economy is ""booming,"" remember: tens of millions of Americans are still struggling just to keep their heads above water economically. Over 40% of Americans don't have enough savings to cover a $400 emergency expense. Our job is to ensure that every American has an affordable place to live, a good-paying job and is not forced to go deeply into debt to get the health care they need.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157401155167908)",Chartis,e8b3vg7,SandersForPresident
"- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)
- [Donate to Bernie's tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  
- [Donate only to Bernie](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-reddit)  ",Chartis,e87zm1z,SandersForPresident
"Listen to me: I was in Iowa in 2016. WE NEED PEOPLE IN ALL THE CAUCUS LOCATIONS. The district we were in was run by open Hillary supporters, they intentionally tried to rush the vote after O'Malley was found not viable and then tried to close without a recount (we had been talking to the O'Malley people all night, it was clear they were coming to us). It is ONLY because we had a pushy and active district captain that we ensured a clean count in our location. If we don't put bodies in buildings we will get cheated.

[Clinton Iowa Bernie HQ](https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=939127139497775&set=a.1634796243264191&type=3&theater)
",KirsaMint,e87ujm9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e87tj36,SandersForPresident
Marched with him on the fourth of July in Iowa. He was amazed at the crowd that joined him. The DNC robbed him and screwed America.,flamingboard,e87wcno,SandersForPresident
He will.,wheelward,e87s5yc,SandersForPresident
"I remember someone in the lefty mediaverse floated the theory that Bernie hasn't made a decision if he was going to run or not in 2020, but he would do everything he should do as if he was going to run to make sure that door was open. 

I hope he decides to run.",thesilverpig,e87vxy5,SandersForPresident
"If he is feeling as good and able to work as hard as he is today then he had better run.

And as far as I can tell he started his campaign for 2020 right after the last election.",xxoites,e8841qv,SandersForPresident
The only thing that will give me a sense of optimism for this country's future is if Bernie runs again. We need him to rally the troops again!,CreamyGoodnss,e884zvi,SandersForPresident
"So many voices that predicted he was not viable will repeat what they have said in the past.  Ask them why they say these things.  Could he be less viable than the candidate billed as a strategic mastermind while making campaign resource deployment decisions thoroughly outmatched by Kellyanne Conway's acumen?  Could he be less viable than a candidate who has long upheld our alliance with the Saudis (among various other morally bankrupt regimes) as elements of a ""sound"" foreign policy establishment?  Could he be less viable than a candidate who was for corporate globalism until she was against it, against marriage equality until she was for it?

Instead of ""pouting"" about the ""stupid"" choice the Electoral College made in 2016, the Democratic Party should be figuring out how to change itself so that they don't try to pass off another celebrity puffball as the ""smart"" alternative.  Publicists no longer paste over the public record as effectively as they did in the 20th century.  That doesn't mean we need a young candidate, but we surely need one who isn't allergic to new ideas.  The DNC is practically wallpapered in doctors' notes detailing their allergies in that department.",Demonweed,e87vyuj,SandersForPresident
"I went to a James Thompson rally with him and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Wichita, Kansas this summer. For a traditionally red state, there were a ton of people there. They actually had to move venues because the one they reserved originally wasn’t big enough! ",NO-IM-DIRTY-DAN,e88wqnb,SandersForPresident
"If he's here in Iowa, he's already running.  That right there was a campaign stop, just way ahead of primary season.",echisholm,e88do2t,SandersForPresident
i stood next to Ari in Michigan (Ann Arbor) the other night.  He's such a terrific guy!,eoswald,e87nfnx,SandersForPresident
They want you to believe that Biden is the best candidate but I say this is accurate only if you want a repeat failure.,willtheitguy,e88dcnv,SandersForPresident
If he decides to run I promise to work on his campaign from day one!,Lexibee86,e88qovc,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88johh,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e890vse,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88pkm6,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88lh6v,SandersForPresident
"Serious question. 

I love Bernie, but isnt he too old?

If he won in 2020 he would be 84?(83?) by the time the 2024 election rolls around. ",Jesta23,e88lsln,SandersForPresident
Unfortunately the dnc hasn't come around yet. G there's a good chance they'll sabotage him again.,relditor,e884wgu,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88lk3u,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88nzvj,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88syfz,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e892b95,SandersForPresident
"As someone who supported Trump in 2016...if Sanders ran again..I'd vote Sanders. I supported Trump because the Leftist nut jobs and SJWs were pissing me off. Soy boys and inequality and racially charged news media and politics are NOT what this country needs. Unfortunately...Trump has proven himself to be a horrible leader, and not intelligent or good enough to represent a country. I hope to see someone with peace, kindness and a good moral compass in the next election.",MountWaifuji,e89301l,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88ksy5,SandersForPresident
Socialism will never work,cryptoguy3,e88q9he,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88dixb,SandersForPresident
Some girl stormed out of my county convention and tore up the Bernie sign outside before she drove off. I had just given a speech about how we would need real excitement to win and Hillary had nothing compared to Bernie on excitement.,flamingboard,e87wghu,SandersForPresident
Don't forget about the counties that literally flipped a freaking coin to break a tie and gave it to Hillary. Democracy at work ya'll...,nyxo1,e88qq8w,SandersForPresident
">The district we were in was run by open Hillary supporters, they intentionally tried to rush the vote after O'Malley was found not viable and then tried to close without a recount

So each precinct has a precinct chair. This chair is elected at the precinct caucus or recruited or appointed by the County Chair person. Going to the ""off year caucus"" there was one in 2018 is generally the way to demonstrate the difference between being and activist and someone that just shows up for a Presidential candidate.

There's no rules about the precinct chair being a supporter of one candidate or another. There's also the opportunity to elect a new chair during the caucus.

The realignment period that occurs if not all candidates have a viable number of delegates is also a fixed amount of time.

Caucuses can get chaotic in general, especially if there are dozens or hundreds of people there that have never been to one before and don't know what's going on, and that precinct chair is a volunteer and sometimes they get overwhelmed. 


Winning the caucuses isn't about one winter night every four years, it's an on going process. Sanders will win if Sanders supporters are active members of the Iowa Democratic Party. 

So, hopefully there's a lot of folks that went to their first caucus in 2016 that are out there knocking doors in Iowa for this election. ",Zeakk1,e87xkwh,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87zndh,SandersForPresident
And they will again in 2020 if we don’t fight like hell.,Infinite_Derp,e881khq,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e89ehgi,SandersForPresident
They robbed us by screwing him.,shroyhammer,e885fv0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88mdea,SandersForPresident
The DNC also screwed themselves enormously. ,ricklegend,e88rdiz,SandersForPresident
Screw Socialism.,codasoda2,e88yhy9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88eob5,SandersForPresident
And the DNC will fuck him again. ,saarlac,e882ert,SandersForPresident
"No, there was a period there where he felt like he was to blame for Trump getting elected and for a short while that felt like an eternity he went full DNC narrative. Then he got his head straight again and went back to doing what he's been doing for his whole life: fighting for the people and the environment against the corporatocracy. ",Dsilkotch,e887ygw,SandersForPresident
"
>Instead of ""pouting"" about the ""stupid"" choice the Electoral College made in 2016, the Democratic Party should be figuring out how to change itself so that they don't try to pass off another celebrity puffball as the ""smart"" alternative.

You know, the one thing I'm happy about the whole Facebook debacle (and the subsequent Zuckerberg hearing) is that the notion of having Zuckerberg running for President is all but a distant memory at this point.",WillGallis,e885uby,SandersForPresident
I hope so.,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88tqx0,SandersForPresident
"For real, dude isn't just there for a corndog",We_Are_The_Romans,e8968u8,SandersForPresident
https://act.berniesanders.com/signup/volunteer,Chartis,e88r66z,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88kf2s,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",neurocentricx,e891wx0,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88qj7a,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88qjz3,SandersForPresident
"No. There's attacks against him because of his age, but not because of his health. It's hard to keep up with his schedule, both as a Senator and as leader of a national movement to revitalize American democracy.  

>If all of us are blessed to live long enough one day we will be 70, 80, 90 and how would we feel if somebody was discriminating against us based on our age? So that just really gets to me, not just because it's Senator Sanders but there's a whole generation of elders out there who have given so much and have so much left to give. That people just tolerate ageism bothers me a lot...  

-Nina Turner, [Nov 28^th](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AeMPjk2y91g&feature=youtu.be&t=392)   

Ageism is prohibited by our [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules).

>I am very happy that – and I thank God for this, I’m very lucky – [I’m very blessed with my health](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TOU7ISHDkFc) … I literally cannot remember the last time I missed a day because of illness. I’ve been sick, but I go to work.  

-Bernie, Oct 19^th '18    


>I have few doubts about his physical stamina. There’s no sign of any decline in his mental faculties. In the worst case, vice presidents—especially well chosen, ideologically wellmatched vice presidents—provide a safeguard.

[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>He's vibrant, he's capable, he's determined.

-[Jeff Merkley](http://freebeacon.com/politics/dem-senator-brushes-aside-concerns-bernies-age-2020-vibrant-capable-determined/)  

",Chartis,e88mnxm,SandersForPresident
He is the only politician that I trust. I don't care if he is 99 years old.,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88ttbb,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e88npym,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88p931,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e88t2q3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e892ieh,SandersForPresident
"[Thank you](https://i.redd.it/78aw4i8wuy611.png) for your support, humanity, & patriotism.",Chartis,e8938b0,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e88z5r6,SandersForPresident
Really? Seems to be working out great in most other developed nations that don't have their heads completely up their own ass.,mgman640,e893wmt,SandersForPresident
"Hi `D3ath_to_commies`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9q91vi/-/e88dixb/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

Your post has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e88hrw1,SandersForPresident
"Women who wanted to vote for $hillary solely based on the fact that she’s a woman need to grow up.

It’s not that women can’t do a good job, but it should never be about someone’s gender, it should be about who is most fit for the job and can give us what we need right now.",shroyhammer,e885hu6,SandersForPresident
Is that not excitement? She was willing to vandalize for Hillary ,lotm43,e8911b4,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88avsu,SandersForPresident
"They are already trying so hard to do so.  I've already noticed a lot of censorship and narrative control going on.  


&#x200B;",MyOther_UN_is_Clever,e8823fz,SandersForPresident
Indeed. They don't want to stop the campaign donation (bribery) gravy train.,flamingboard,e882f7g,SandersForPresident
"They have already been putting out hit pieces against him.

And pretending that Biden is a a better pick. ",StockmanBaxter,e88j4vw,SandersForPresident
"If ever there was a perfect opportunity to create a viable third party Bernie has it now. Why would you want him to return to the party that screwed him? The party of Schemer and Pelosi, people who only care about donors.",biomike14,e88bjir,SandersForPresident
My registration was changed 3 times. You can't use bogus numbers to back up your bogus claim.,flamingboard,e89jdyx,SandersForPresident
They also screwed us by robbing him.,Facky,e88dmyq,SandersForPresident
"Hi `TotesMessenger`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9q91vi/-/e88mdea/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

This is being removed because all submissions should relate to progressive policies which Bernie Sanders has regularly promoted and discussed or progressive candidates endorsed by Bernie Sanders, Our Revolution, Justice Democrats, National Nurses United or Brand New Congress. Submissions which do not provide enough context, content, or direction for discussion may be removed. Consider creating a self-post with context and links to explain the relevancy to Bernie and his movement. Memes, image macros, screenshots should be high quality or may be removed at moderator discretion. Unreliable news sources will be filtered by automoderator. (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",formerteenager,e88ov3p,SandersForPresident
You don't even know what that word means.,flamingboard,e89jfre,SandersForPresident
You will never screw. ,Andy1816,e89mp0e,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88hbte,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88hri6,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88iiwn,SandersForPresident
How do we fuck the dnc?,shroyhammer,e885g6t,SandersForPresident
"You really misunderstand what actually happened.

He made an agreement with the DNC that if they allowed him to run as a Democrat he would wholeheartedly endorse the nominee.

He does not go back on his word.

Think about that.",xxoites,e8886g6,SandersForPresident
"Really? How's South American or European countries doing that have adopted this model? Socialism creates a model that dissuades people from working instead of incentivizing them. You can't let the government run markets, this social experiment has failed before in the 70's and 80's, as markets are most efficient when the people run them. Take a basic econ. class at your local community college, it will do you good.",cryptoguy3,e89ohko,SandersForPresident
">It is insane to be here and feel the momentum in this room. I can't tell you how special this is for me. I'm a young woman and [I'm here because I support Bernie Sanders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=926&v=BgcHk9WpcJo), I'm not here for the *bros*.

>I have seen symbolism in elections, symbolism that so desperately fails the people who so desperately needed the action to make change. I want my first female President to be more than a symbol.

>[Bernie Sanders is offering the action we desperately need.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/fighting-for-womens-rights ) His economic solution will provide for those who suffer from the oppression of a broken system. Including women.

>Bernie has the freedom from the private interests and big corporations to give families the extra childcare, time off for maternity leave, and pay equality. Actions that affect women directly.

>Bernie understands the importance of addressing inequality in a flawed economic system. We are here because we know that Bernie can bring real change. He can create a country that does not incarcerate more than it educates. A country with a demilitarized police force. One where we do not allow young Black men to be murdered without accountability. He gives us hope for equality.

>We haven't had a candidate like Bernie Sanders in a long time and we might not see the likes of him again. This is our moment. This is the time.

>I've been so impressed by the Sanders campaign. [He's remained so dignified in an insane political climate.](https://www.instagram.com/p/BoIDjicBCpU/?taken-by=berniesanders) And in doing so he's reminded us that this election is certainly not about the gender of the candidate.

>This is about a chance for a real change. One that will effect each and every American. This is about our future, a future we can believe in.

-Emily Ratajkowski, [Feb 15^th '16](https://www.facebook.com/Officialemilyratajkowski/videos/846785232099639)",Chartis,e88jix3,SandersForPresident
Those same people are the ones that make us look bad by screaming at trump voters and calling everyone they don't agree with sexist.,Butthole_Pucker217,e88o5c8,SandersForPresident
"It's more that we live in an incredibly misogynistic society. Until we elect a decent woman as president, it's hard to feel good about America.",gadgetcool5,e886t1j,SandersForPresident
"Lots of shilling on reddit too, already. Fight it everywhere and don’t let it fool you. :)",Pirvan,e88bost,SandersForPresident
"Have you seen [this mind boggling article](https://nypost.com/2018/10/20/count-on-hillary-clinton-running-again-in-2020/) yet? I almost couldn't believe what I was reading.. Apparently, the democratic establishment thinks that hillary is the ""most qualified and most likely candidate to beat Trump in 2020"".. I'm not fucking joking, these morons truly believe that Clinton will win this time, even though she's lost more presidential elections than any candidate I can remember on either side.. What kind of bubble do you have to live in to truly believe that Hillary's chances have gone up??? The current DNC will be the death of the democratic party, if they nominate Hillary again, then I'm fucking rioting..

Point is, you're right, then don't care about winning, they just care about holding onto their power and will throw us all under the bus again if it means they get to keep their precious ""superdelegates""...",MagniGames,e89a4im,SandersForPresident
They're actually even pretending that [Hillary Clinton](https://nypost.com/2018/10/20/count-on-hillary-clinton-running-again-in-2020/) is *still* somehow the best pick.. Fucking insane...,MagniGames,e89a998,SandersForPresident
"> If ever there was a perfect opportunity to create a viable third party Bernie has it now.

Running as a Dem guarantees TV time at the primary debates. If he ran 3rd party, then he won't make any TV appearance. He also won't be invited to the general election debates.",pablonieve,e88mtgq,SandersForPresident
">if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)


>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

>We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  ",Chartis,e88jaqy,SandersForPresident
We also screwed ourselves by not voting for him.  Remember when he lost the popular vote?,aidzberger,e88qum9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88hua4,SandersForPresident
"They're actually pretty good at doing that themselves. 

Notice Trump is in the white house and the GOP controls both the house and the senate. ",StockmanBaxter,e88j73l,SandersForPresident
">I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. [Change is happening](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  


>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  
",Chartis,e88jodk,SandersForPresident
Protest at Hillary's 2020 rallies.,Facky,e88dv24,SandersForPresident
"Re-elect Donald Trump?

(God, I hope not)",techmaster242,e88lahp,SandersForPresident
Bernie or Green/Socialist,flashbangbaby,e88esd4,SandersForPresident
"You misunderstood my comment.

I understand why he endorsed Hillary after the DNC convention. I understand why he campaigned for her before the general. Not only had he promised all along to do so, he was genuinely terrified of a Trump Presidency and did everything he could to prevent it from happening.

But after the general, when Trump won, the US sort of went into a state of chaos and over-the-top horror for a while there. I'm sure you remember; it wasn't that long ago. It hit Sanders really hard, because so many ignorant people were blaming him and his supporters. If you watch video from that time, he just looks stressed out and awful. He  even started pushing the bullshit Russiagate narrative for a while there. There was discussion amongst his supporters about whether he had been compromised in some way.

Then he remembered who he is, and got back to doing what he does. And we're all still here for him, because he's the hero we need.

I understand and sympathize with why he stumbled a little after Trump got elected, but let's not pretend that it never happened.",Dsilkotch,e888i9z,SandersForPresident
"You know that he's a democratic socialist, right? Not a communist? Do you know the difference between communism and socialism? Because it seems like you don't. And European countries that are democratic socialist are doing GREAT. Check out how the Nordic countries have been doing. Cuz they're doing way better than America by damn near every metric imaginable.",mgman640,e89owah,SandersForPresident
"> make us look bad by screaming at trump voters

Honestly not a terrible look. Most of his fans richly deserve it, and it's cool to see someone stand up to a bully.

The sexism bellyaching was incredibly trite and dumb though. ",Andy1816,e89m2z6,SandersForPresident
**Anyone** decent would work for me.,Facky,e88dt83,SandersForPresident
That may be true electing just anyone based on their genital type vs their merits is a bad idea.,shmere4,e88hi4q,SandersForPresident
"President Hillary would have taken us in the wrong direction on that front, being a misogynist herself. ",Dsilkotch,e887px1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e88o3at,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e88lgi3,SandersForPresident
"The NY Post is a tabloid, but that was still a jaw-dropping read.",Dsilkotch,e89vfs5,SandersForPresident
"It's like they want Trump for 4 more years.

I wonder if it's good for fundraising. ",StockmanBaxter,e89gq07,SandersForPresident
"Problem is, the DNC can just say under its new rules “sorry you’re not a Democrat. You can’t run at all.”",Infinite_Derp,e88px83,SandersForPresident
I really hope that they learn from 2016.... ,editjames,e88xib4,SandersForPresident
"LoL I was talking about fucking just the DNC, not the entire planet.",shroyhammer,e88lg7c,SandersForPresident
"Aahhhh-pah-pup-pup-pup!
*”democratic socialist”* ;)",shroyhammer,e88l9cs,SandersForPresident
"Lol at thinking Russia had zero influence. I hate the dnc and hillary fyi, but there's tons of proof that Russia did something even if it wasn't very effectual. ",vinnymendoza09,e88clr2,SandersForPresident
"Pushing the ""Russia Gate thing?""

Have you *really* been paying attention?

Or am I misunderstanding what you are attempting to say?",xxoites,e888ogy,SandersForPresident
"In the he-said she-said between the Netherlands and Russia, my goodwill favors the Dutch and we await the outcome of the independent investigation that may find this and other evidence constitutes further proof:  

>In April 2016, Fancy Bear accessed the Washington servers of the Democrats; Cozy Bear had done so as early as the summer of 2015. Once more, the group was caught red-handed by the Dutch... The information shared by The Netherlands about the hacks at the DNC ended up on the desk of Robert Mueller, the Special Prosecutor leading the FBI investigation into possible Russian interference in the American elections. As early as December, the New York Times reported that information from, among others, Australia, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands had propelled the FBI investigation.

-[NOS](https://nos.nl/nieuwsuur/artikel/2213767-dutch-intelligence-first-to-alert-u-s-about-russian-hack-of-democratic-party.html)

>Dutch spies determined that Cozy Bear was operated by Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service... witnessed the Russians breaking into servers owned by the Democratic National Committee  

-[de Volkskrant](https://www.volkskrant.nl/wetenschap/dutch-agencies-provide-crucial-intel-about-russia-s-interference-in-us-elections%7Eb4f8111b/)  

>The indictments announced today by the Justice Department confirm once again that Russia interfered in our elections to benefit Donald Trump. The fact that these indictments name 12 members of Russia’s military intelligence service strongly suggests that the interference was directed from the highest levels of the Russian government. It’s imperative that Special Counsel Mueller be allowed to continue his investigation free of pressure.  

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-statement-on-russia-probe-indictments)

It would be beneficial to: 

>* Move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same  

>* Demand that the sanctions against Russia be fully implemented by the president  

>* Not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-introduces-resolution-to-protect-american-democracy-from-russian-meddling)  

>Russia actively worked to influence our 2016 presidential election and continues to try and destabilize democracies around the world, including ours. 

-[Sanders Statement on Iran Sanctions Resolution](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-sanctions-resolution)    

>It is unacceptable for Russia to interfere in our elections here in the United States... There must be consequences for such actions.  

-[Sanders Statement on Iran and Russia Sanctions](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-and-russia-sanctions)

>It is a real political attack by Russia against the United States.   

-Bernie, [March 30^th '17](http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1703/30/wolf.01.html)  

> the evidence is now overwhelming that Russia interfered in the last election, and in doing that is undermining American democracy.  

-Bernie, [Oct 30th '17](https://www.pscp.tv/NYCMayor/1LyGBRVrEnkGN?t=1494)

>At the end of the campaign... they played a really disgusting role because they don't believe in anything. All they want to do is sow division in this country, bring people against each other.   

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 21^st '18](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)  

>2016 election right here in the United States, where we now know that the Russian government was engaged in a massive effort to undermine one of our greatest strengths: the integrity of our elections, and our faith in our own democracy.  

-Bernie, [Sept 21^st '17](https://www.thenation.com/article/bernie-sanders-just-gave-one-of-the-finest-speeches-of-his-career)  

>It's a big deal. Bob Mueller was given the assignment of determining whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to undermine American democracy. And today is a major step forward with the indictment of Manafort.  

>I worry very much about the attacks we're seeing every day in a variety of ways, not only from the Russians.  

>Of all the issues and problems facing this country: Making sure we fight to protect and revitalize American democracy and take on all of those people who undermine what men and women fought and died to defend, that is our major task.  

-Bernie, [All Hallows' Eve '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=13&v=Omiw5pRojto)
",Chartis,e88k0di,SandersForPresident
"Despite their political structure, the economic structure of socialism has never worked. You have the government imposing rules and regulations that hinder growth in jobs and economic output, this is because of the mechanisms that help markets run efficiently. Would you want to bust your tail and work for 20 cents on the dollar? I think not. 
Mind you those ""Scandinavian countries have a populations of a few million compared to the U.S of 300+ million.",cryptoguy3,e89r5f5,SandersForPresident
Bingo. Having a vagina doesn't mean you're the best person for women's rights. Amazing to me that some people don't get that ,Slayers_Stif,e88awfv,SandersForPresident
"""My husband humiliated me on a worldwide scale, and I stuck with him. Feminism!""",Andy1816,e89m5iw,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88oguc,SandersForPresident
here is an example of that shilling u/Pirvan is talking about. Just ignore it,afadedgiant,e88nsux,SandersForPresident
"Yes, once the primaries were over and Hillary was the nominee the was Russian interference which attempted to deepen the already existing antipathy within the Democratic Party. However, that antipathy didn't arise because of Russian meddling.

There was a reason that antipathy existed in the first place.

If you were a Hillary supporter and you are still down with the likes of DWS and Rep. Pelosi, I suggest you tell your brethren to stop using phrases like Bernie Bro, or stop trying to portray Sanders supporters as racist, homophobic, misogynistic goons. It's not accurate and only plays into GOP hands.

Edit: A quick stroll through your post history shows you constantly shitting on Bernie. I think your time would be better spent in ESS. After all, this sub is dedicated to getting Bernie elected president. You will find nothing but down votes here and you deserve every single one of them.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88tbuh,SandersForPresident
"It is, that's why they don't really give a shit. ",Andy1816,e89mm56,SandersForPresident
If they do then I will not cast a ballot for any presidential candidate in 2020.,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88th61,SandersForPresident
That's why we have to take back the DNC. ,jackie_pwn_asses,e88ryl4,SandersForPresident
"Well they obviously haven't. When asked if she thought the people wanted a new direction, Pelosi said no. ",StockmanBaxter,e88zc7a,SandersForPresident
"The Donald Trump presidency reminds me of the time that 4chan decided to fuck with American Idol and they did the Vote For The Worst campaign.  That dude Sanjaya ended up staying till nearly the end, all because they thought it would be hilarious.",techmaster242,e88telk,SandersForPresident
"Just say the damn word. No more hiding, we're Socialists, because Socialism is ***good***.",Andy1816,e89msic,SandersForPresident
"I didn't say Russia had zero influence, I said it didn't affect the outcome of the election.

Truth be told, if I were Russian I would have done everything in my power to prevent warhawk Hillary from becoming President. Especially since she basically campaigned on a proxy war in Syria.",Dsilkotch,e88t1ya,SandersForPresident
"Are you denying that he pushed it, or denying that it was just more DNC bullshit to cover the fact that they coronated a loser candidate that everyone hated?",Dsilkotch,e888ruq,SandersForPresident
"I don't need sources, I literally just said that he jumped on the Russiagate bandwagon. I was there.",Dsilkotch,e88t4xh,SandersForPresident
"You start out by saying it doesn't work at all, then try and discount the Scandinavian countries where it has been and IS STILL working, because of their relatively small population? Brilliant dude. Great argument. If you're so against socialism why are you even in a sub that's trying to get a democratic socialist elected as president?",mgman640,e89s05h,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e88pqqi,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8982h1,SandersForPresident
"*sigh*, if only our country were as meaningless as a “reality” TV show.",shroyhammer,e88th1r,SandersForPresident
"Unless you’re a retarded person who is still effected by all of the propaganda from Fox News.
In which case you have to use the right words so you don’t trigger their fear mongering monkey madness.",shroyhammer,e89nb3x,SandersForPresident
"I want you to explain what you mean by ""Russia Gate"" because I have never heard anyone use the term before.",xxoites,e888tka,SandersForPresident
"Are you saying that there was no Russian interference in the 2016 election?

If so, I disagree.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88tojq,SandersForPresident
"Nope, you also called it:  

> the bullshit Russiagate narrative

",Chartis,e88tasz,SandersForPresident
"I mean, if Russia wants us to have a pro-peace, pro-humanity candidate like Sanders, then... ummmm... you see what I’m saying? Why didn’t they want Clinton? Most of the US population didn’t want Clinton judging by her popularity ratings. 

I want Sanders because I know he’s the best candidate for working class America. Clinton was the best candidate for billionaires and the military industrial complex. What Russia wants doesn’t even enter into the equation for me. They have no sway over what I feel is best for my country. They are literally a fart in the wind. 

And besides, the playbook from the fucking Clinton campaign was to denigrate more suitable repub candidates in favor of trump because they thought trump would be easier to beat. Trump is our president because of Clinton campaign, not because of Russia. That pied piper strategy was Clinton’s. ",afadedgiant,e88qbwo,SandersForPresident
">  Bernie Sanders never released his full tax return documents

Yes, that dastardly real estate tycoon mired in decades of shady business deals, Bernie Sanders. Who do you really imagine gives a shit here? 
",Andy1816,e89mjb1,SandersForPresident
"Ok, so Russians were trying to exploit an *already existing divide* during the primaries. And crap like ""Bernie Bros"" and DNC meddling in the process didn't help matters any.

And a reminder that Ms. Clinton voted for the Iraq War, the bankruptcy bill which made it impossible to discharge student loan debt, and Medicare Part D which created a donut hole, inserted privated health care insurance into the health care of the elderly, made it illegal to order medications from overseas, and made it illegal for Medicaid and Medicare to negotiate drug prices with pharmaceutical manufacturers.

Go back to ESS, troll.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e89fl90,SandersForPresident
Those were simpler times.  I miss those days.,techmaster242,e88yg6e,SandersForPresident
">  trigger their fear mongering monkey madness

On the *other hand,* that's fun as fuck and should definitely be done.

 Just dunk, don't argue.",Andy1816,e89nsja,SandersForPresident
"Seriously? I...find that hard to believe. If you google the word (one word, Russiagate), you'll get pages and pages of results.",Dsilkotch,e888zvj,SandersForPresident
"As I have already said in other comments on this thread:

1. If Russia did interfere, I don't think it affected the results either way. Hillary was a shitty candidate from start to finish. She could lose to Sanders in the primary or lose to Trump in the general, those were her two options. She chose unwisely.

2. I think it's the height of hypocrisy for the US government, and especially Hillary ""regime change is my personal hobby"" Clinton to complain about countries interfering with other countries' democratic processes.

3. If I were Russian I would have done everything in my power to prevent warhawk Hillary from becoming President, especially since she basically campaigned on a proxy war in Syria.",Dsilkotch,e88ubh8,SandersForPresident
Because that's exactly what it is.,Dsilkotch,e88tmc9,SandersForPresident
Very well put.,Kurichan77,e88ry9a,SandersForPresident
Russia only “supported” Bernie because they wanted to drive a wedge into the Democratic Party and take support away from Clinton and send it towards trump. It’s like no one remembers all the shills saying that after Bernie lost the primary that they’d vote for trump and never Clinton. Russia *hates* clinton probably more than anyone except GOP leadership,Ed_Thatch,e88rys3,SandersForPresident
Slam dunk right in their faces.,shroyhammer,e89p1b0,SandersForPresident
"I don't care what the pages and pages say.

I want to know what *you* mean when you say it.",xxoites,e8891xv,SandersForPresident
">If Russia did interfere

There's no ""if"" about it. We can argue about the extent of it, but there's no question that they did.

>I don't think it affected the results either way.

Then we disagree. The email hacks and WikiLeaks releases alone were enough to tip the election. We are talking about a margin of a few thousand votes in three swing states.

>Hillary was a shitty candidate from start to finish.

Agreed.

>I think it's the height of hypocrisy for the US government, and especially Hillary ""regime change is my personal hobby"" Clinton to complain about countries interfering with other countries' democratic processes.

I don't disagree, but that doesn't mean that the Russians didn't have an impact on our election.

>If I were Russian I would have done everything in my power to prevent warhawk Hillary from becoming President, especially since she basically campaigned on a proxy war in Syria.

So if there was Russian interference you are OK with it?

I am not.

  
",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88v2t4,SandersForPresident
Which is why the sources were supplied.  ,Chartis,e88toex,SandersForPresident
"a lot of Americans hated Clinton... I think you're making the mistake of thinking it was Russian shills and not independent voters who just wanted to vote for an anti-establishment candidate, whether it was Sanders or Trump, it didn't matter. I know plenty of people who voted for Trump simply because their conscience wouldn't let them vote for Clinton. That's saying a lot about how she was viewed in the US, and these are views held long before ""Russian meddling""

Just because someone made the mistake of thinking Trump had anything good to offer besides status quo establishment politics like Clinton was offering, does not make them a russian shill. But that redscare bullshit does make for a convenient scapegoat. ",afadedgiant,e88u8sy,SandersForPresident
"It is a shorthand term for the allegation that Trump conspired with Putin to sway the election in his favor. If you have seriously never heard or read the term before today, you must have spent the past two years under a rock.
",Dsilkotch,e889kgf,SandersForPresident
"Ok, ***Although*** Russia **did** interfere, nominating a candidate that 45% of America already loathed on-sight was worse. 

>  The email hacks and WikiLeaks releases alone

wouldn't have done anything if she wasn't nominated. ",Andy1816,e89myix,SandersForPresident
"It's just completely disingenuous to pretend that every developed country in the world isn't all up in each other's political business all the time. The US is *by far* the worst offender in this, and has been for at least 70 years.",Dsilkotch,e88vduc,SandersForPresident
"A real progressive would never, and I repeat NEVER vote for Donald trump over Clinton. I know that’s a no true Scotsman, but it’s true. Donald trump represents the entire opposite of Bernie (pro corporate, pro war, anti drugs, pro corruption, I could go on and on) and I really have a hard time believing that a progressive would vote for trump.

Not to say that everyone who said that was a shill, but I could believe a good amount of them were.",Ed_Thatch,e88xfo1,SandersForPresident
Are you implying that this didn't happen? That Russia DIDN'T meddle into our electoral process?,ohmslyce,e889wtw,SandersForPresident
"I have heard of it as the Mueller investigation into alleged collusion between the Trump Campaign and Putin and there is certainly plenty of evidence that there was not to mention thirty seven indictments and seven convictions including his personal lawyer Michael Cohen, but not *once* have I heard of it as ""Russia gate.""",xxoites,e88ablw,SandersForPresident
"I don't know why anyone thinks that I am defending the candidacy of Hillary Clinton. I simply refuse to lay her defeat at the feet of any one particular issue. There were multiple problems with that candidacy as well as Russian interference and GOP complicity in that interference.

She was a terrible candidate. She should have campaigned in the three swing states she narrowly lost. She and her minions should not have tried to bully Sanders supporters onto voting for her.

The Russians did interfere. Comey did fuck up.   


There are many reasons she lost and it is all water under the bridge.

What happened is a matter for historians and Robert Mueller. What matters is what we have before us - the 2018 midterms. Once that's done we can worry about 2020.

I'm so done with 2016.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e89rc9r,SandersForPresident
"Which means absolutely nothing within the context of this discussion.

If you are ok with a foreign power interfering in our elections then you, sir/madame, are not a good American citizen. Period.

If you are against us interfering in the elections of other countries, I agree with that.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88vnzr,SandersForPresident
He said independents. And he's dead on about her being hated. ,Andy1816,e89mdi5,SandersForPresident
"Did I say progressive? No, I said independent antiestablishment voter. ",afadedgiant,e88ycek,SandersForPresident
"1. If they did, I don't think it affected the results either way. Hillary was a shitty candidate from start to finish. She could lose to Sanders in the primary or lose to Trump in the general, those were her two options. She chose unwisely.

2. I think it's the height of hypocrisy for the US government, and especially Hillary ""regime change is my personal hobby"" Clinton to complain about countries interfering with other countries' democratic processes.

",Dsilkotch,e88a91n,SandersForPresident
Then you must be one of those bubble people I keep hearing about.,Dsilkotch,e88arkr,SandersForPresident
"Can we agree that it's either okay for everyone to do it, or it's not okay for anyone to do it? ",Dsilkotch,e88vtn6,SandersForPresident
"While you're entitled to your opinion of course, there is reliable evidence that Russia did meddle in our elections. How deeply they did is still up in the air, so hopefully Mueller's investigation can shed some light on what actually occurred and just how much damage was done. ",ohmslyce,e88avuc,SandersForPresident
"You seem a bit weird to me. You have a 2016 veteran flair, but before I got locked out of my account ass ""xoites"" (because my password got corrupted somehow) my flair here was ""Quartermaster"" because i lent my 2014 Prius to the the Nevada Campaign for five months and offered a room to a volunteer or staff member.

And you are sitting here criticizing Bernie and calling me a dumb ass and at this point I really don't want to talk to you any longer.

""Russia Gate"" could just as easily be a derogatory term for an alleged relationship between Hilary and Putin which has been pushed (at times) by the far right.

So why don't you just end this before I block you and talk to me another time when I am not so pissed off and you can figure out how to talk to me with some respect.

Goodnight.",xxoites,e88b98i,SandersForPresident
We can agree that it is not ok for anyone to do it.,Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88wa2k,SandersForPresident
Would you mind linking to the reliable evidence?,biomike14,e88bgbq,SandersForPresident
"> And you are sitting here criticizing Bernie and calling me a dumb ass and at this point I really don't want to talk to you any longer.

Neither of those things has happened. You are seeing things that aren't there.

>Goodnight.

It's morning where I'm at, my day's just getting started. So either you're not in the US at all, or maybe you should consider getting more sleep. It might improve your reading comprehension skills.


",Dsilkotch,e88bh3j,SandersForPresident
"And if that golden day ever comes when we figure out how to stop everyone from doing it, I will be first in line to condemn anyone who attempts it.

Meanwhile, condemning some countries and not others for doing it is basically like saying that it's okay for one gender to hit the other but not okay for the other gender to hit back.

I love my country. I do not love the people who have been running it into the ground for the past four decades or so. And I don't blame anyone anywhere else in the world who feels the same way about those people as I do.",Dsilkotch,e88x753,SandersForPresident
"[This is just one article, however there are many more just like this one.](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/18/world/europe/trump-intelligence-russian-election-meddling-.html)",ohmslyce,e88d96l,SandersForPresident
I live in Las Vegas. I got of work at midnight. Until I go to sleep it is night time.,xxoites,e88e9wq,SandersForPresident
"We can stop doing it and do what we can to prevent others from doing it to us - either proactively (hardening our elections systems, combating disinformation, etc.) And reactively (punishing those that do. Sanctions, etc.).",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88xxhj,SandersForPresident
"Did they release any of the evidence discussed in the article so that I may look at it myself? I can't take their words for it unfortunately after WMD's , incubator robbers, etc.",biomike14,e88h2kj,SandersForPresident
">We can stop doing it

But I doubt we ever will.

>and do what we can to prevent others from doing it to us - either proactively (hardening our elections systems,

See, no one wants to talk about that. They'll spend years screeching about ""foreign interference,"" but no one in power actually wants to make our election process less hackable, except in a few very progressive states like Washington. American elections are designed to be manipulable, it's baked right into the system. 


 >combating disinformation,

We'll have to reorganize the entire corporate media, then, because that's the biggest source of disinformation in the US.

>And reactively (punishing those that do. Sanctions, etc.).

Starting with ourselves, I assume?",Dsilkotch,e88yj5s,SandersForPresident
You're well aware they haven't. It's not common for most investigators to release evidence while the investigation is ongoing. You're going to have to wait like all of us.,ohmslyce,e89fsbm,SandersForPresident
">See, no one wants to talk about that. They'll spend years screeching about ""foreign interference,"" but no one in power actually wants to make our election process less hackable, except in a few very progressive states like Washington. American elections are designed to be manipulable, it's baked right into the system. 

I don't disagree. It won't change until we demand it does.

If we can force our media to not lie, I would be ok with that.  


>Starting with ourselves, I assume?

I would be perfectly OK with laws banning interference in foreign elections and offering criminal sanctions against those that break such laws - including imprisonment and crippling fines as punishment.

  


  
",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e88z2on,SandersForPresident
"In the meantime, you'll forgive us if we don't assume the evidence exists before we've seen it for ourselves.",Dsilkotch,e89vrv8,SandersForPresident
"Sounds like we agree on most of it, then. Sorry I can't get as outraged over other countries allegedly fucking with American democracy as I get over my own government unquestionably fucking with it.",Dsilkotch,e88zqsl,SandersForPresident
"We should all be enraged about foreign interference in our elections, our interference in the internal affairs of other countries, and attempts to prevent voter participation in free, fair, open and honest elections in our own country by power hungry pigs who think that their agenda is more important than the will of the people.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e89010b,SandersForPresident
I don't disagree with any of that. I just don't think the US is in any position to cast the first stone.,Dsilkotch,e891qx6,SandersForPresident
"Maybe we aren't, but we are long past the first stone having been thrown.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e893l4q,SandersForPresident
"Ty Black-American women!  

You've reliably used reality to move our populace toward justice.  Sorry the struggle is so tough, but I need you, your energy, your efforts, your perspective, and your vote.  Tyvm! 🤟🏻✌🏻😎  

You are part of America's backbone that gives us strength and leadership.

 Never back down from the rights we all get to enjoy.

Eric Garner could have been me and you might have been my mom.

If the basis of literature is the human struggle then you each are a book on the American experience.",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e8b5ysx,SandersForPresident
"He's trying to motivate people to vote, smart move.",TomBurcher,e8bwn52,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e8cps1o,SandersForPresident
yes,TomBurcher,e8cvrth,SandersForPresident
">Dignity on the job was created by the trade union movement. And together we are going to revitalize the trade union movement. Because when we grow the trade union movement we grow the middle-class, and we bring power back...  

>He's gonna win!  

>Go out and get your:  

>* co-workers
>* family members  
>* neighbors  
>* acquaintances

>to the polls... you don't have to wait for November 6^th. Take 'em to the polls now. Tell them if you can take them to the polls you'll cover a nice dinner tonight. How's that?  

>If people can fight & die for American democracy, we can go out and vote & play an active role in this.  

>Think about the people you know who are suffering with heart disease, cancer, diabetes, & other life threatening illnesses who are alive because they have insurance. And think about these people who want to throw 32 million people off of the health care they have.

[57:03]( https://youtu.be/OtDH2XfY1ko?t=3423)  
>We received more votes from young people than Trump & Clinton combined.  

>We have a corrupt political system in which billionaires are buying elections. We have a corrupt economy where the rich get much richer while the middle-class continues to shrink.  

>I talked to single Mom who worked for 7 years in Iowa for $7.25/h. She's now up to eight bucks an hour. That's nonsense. That's absurd. That's bullshit! We are going to raise the minimum wage to a living wage: 15 bucks an hour.  

>You turn on your faucet in Flint Michigan or anyplace else you should not be poisoned. We can create millions, millions of good paying union jobs when we begin to rebuild this crumbling infrastructure.  

>We got folks trying to make it on $13,000 a year. We're not going to cut Social Security. We're going to expand benefits for Social Security.  

>The rich are going to start paying [their fair share of taxes.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9oyq86/mitch_mcconnell_and_the_republicans_have_always/e7yxaz8/)  

>We have 2 weeks left to go.

-Bernie, Oct 22^nd '18. Further highlights can be found in [transcriptions from other events of Bernie's nationwide tour.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9pzx7u/bernie_sanders_rallies_sioux_city_with_jd_scholten/e85jmhv/)
",Chartis,e8aa8hr,SandersForPresident
I'd rather not give that person the time of day.,BopTheDrass,e8bmix5,SandersForPresident
">What was his reply?

>[A touched smile.](https://twitter.com/yusuf_vi/status/1054500988902653952?s=21)",gideonvwainwright,e89wxav,SandersForPresident
"You should probably report this to the school administration or school district as political commentary in a classroom. Beyond being an inaccurate description of socialist economic theory, it is quite clearly political ad hominem. Imagine if a teacher made a monopoly joke about Republicans and their fiscal policy.",TallTallTruffula,e88w8yj,SandersForPresident
Edit: my friend and I are meeting with administration tomorrow to discuss removing this from the curriculum. I’ll let y’all know how it goes. ,cartvr,e89a8dl,SandersForPresident
"Should bring up the **original** rules of monopoly, the games end quite quickly with a monopolist and everybody else bankrupt and was anti-capitalist. ",Bardali,e890gj1,SandersForPresident
"Ask your teacher to play free market monopoly where one player starts with 50% of all the money, and already owns half the board.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e893joy,SandersForPresident
"If the rules were actually an honest representation of Democratic Socialism:

1. All the railroads, utilities and jail would be free for everyone forever.
2. All taxes and fees are paid into the middle (the government) with 25% collected as the cost of government and the rest are evenly re-distributed to all players every round, unless your assets are over 5k (The rich), who don't collect. [Ironically their rule #2 is actually a fair representation of dem socialism]
3. Monopolies are illegal, anyone can build housing at any time, but rent is based on your income. If you're poor, you can land on spaces rent-free. Hotel rates are only levied on rich players (assets above 5k).

If these rules were actually implemented, I'm fairly certain that all players would quickly become rich from the two income sources and no one would ever go bankrupt. The game would probably end when the bank goes bankrupt and all the players are rich.

An honest teacher could use monopoly as a framework to teach all the various governmental and economic systems, especially if they let the students experiment with the rules and try for themselves at maximizing different outcomes.",sigmaecho,e89d398,SandersForPresident
I'm ok with them using that for teaching about communism but it's grossly misleading to imply this is what social democracy is like. This is not what my life is like at all.,Zincoshine_2018,e898okb,SandersForPresident
"silly thing is, even with these rules... it actually looks like it would be a more or less longer running game than monopoly. Designing the game so that all players stay alive for as long as possible is a not so fun game... having a life in which one player has everything, as he watches the remaining players strugle in delaying their inevitable demise like monopoly naturally is... is a pretty crazy starting point on life.

&#x200B;

&#x200B;

reminds me a bit of a dr who episode, where rose winds up on an alien game-show that was a direct rip off of the weakest link, as the game goes on she realizes she's the only one laughing and having fun, then when the vote to eliminate someone comes up she's still very casual and enjoying it, while trying to figure out why everyone else seemed to remain dead serious, and the person voted off turned deathly afraid. Then the host vaporizes the loser, and rose quickly understood and immediately stopped enjoying the game.

&#x200B;

In short unless you are a psychopath, what makes a good entertaining game, isn't so good for the majority of the participants when the stakes are actually life and death",MyersVandalay,e89akac,SandersForPresident
"Tell your idiotic teacher that landing on free parking does not pay out anything per the actual monopoly rules, so they're wrong already without having to get into the absurdity that is they're blatant propaganda and misinformation ",ncocca,e89ftg0,SandersForPresident
What state is this in?,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e892cho,SandersForPresident
This is insane. Go to jail- “Literally go to Jail for 50 years. Pick up the game once you get out and have had plenty of time to think about the negative impacts of democratic socialism”,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e8airzs,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e89cpkr,SandersForPresident
Lol imma make that republican rule set. Sounds genius. Land anywhere give richest player 20% of your net worth even if they’re in jail. Then act surprised when richest player wins without doing jack shit since his first two rolls.,DeportTrimmigrants,e89048z,SandersForPresident
Lol imagine if teachers could actually teach what republicans get up to,civil_politician,e88yx95,SandersForPresident
A school teacher being vocally liberal. Imagine that. Now that's just crazy talk.,TRUMP-PENCE-2020,e89s2a0,SandersForPresident
i am said friend. we’re gonna try our best to get rid of this political bias from our schools classrooms,rd4vis,e89m8ls,SandersForPresident
The funny thing is when we played I went bankrupt from people having monopolies not from the increased taxes lmao,cartvr,e891diy,SandersForPresident
Whole heartedly agree. ,cartvr,e89d4lm,SandersForPresident
Good ole Arpaio loving Arizona,cartvr,e892rlu,SandersForPresident
Huh?,cartvr,e89d1ca,SandersForPresident
"The republican rule set for monopoly is the rule set for monopoly. 

The game is designed to be depressing and show how capitalism fucks people over for the sake of the few (the monopoly owners). ",MUDrummer,e8973tj,SandersForPresident
Tis he ,cartvr,e89mau0,SandersForPresident
"I hope everyone pointed that out to your republican teacher. It's blatant lying propaganda and they should be fired for pushing this on kids who are legally forced to attend school.  If I were in your class, I would argue with them every day and wouldn't let this go.",sigmaecho,e899x64,SandersForPresident
"When you play by the rules. Most people don't play by the rules, they adjust them to make it fun.",SilentRunning,e8a2eol,SandersForPresident
lol,test822,e8aal86,SandersForPresident
If you teach children to think for themselves having teacher with their own political agenda isn’t that much of a trouble ,Bardali,e89elpy,SandersForPresident
">We need your help to get people involved in the political process and get the vote. When we do that we can make some really good changes... You have to do things that make you a little bit uncomfortable. You have to do things that get you really nervous. If you want to accomplish something you have to go out there. Sometimes it's hard. Knocking on doors is a little bit scary. But at the end of end of the day there's a lot of nice people out there. And that's what's life is about, taking those chances, getting nervous, getting your feelings hurt every now and then. That's how you grow. That's how you grow.   

-Bernie, [Oct 23^rd '18]( https://youtu.be/WoJB_ngESbA?t=251)  



- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)
- [Donate to Bernie's tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  ",Chartis,e89e1sp,SandersForPresident
Gah.  This is terrifying.  ,wheelward,e8a4bxz,SandersForPresident
"I've been out of it for a while, is there any indication when Bernie will make a decision for 2020?",Better_than_Trajan,e8au1kz,SandersForPresident
Do republicans tend to take advantage of early voting more then democrats? Otherwise this is terrifying ,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e8aim8b,SandersForPresident
"He'll be releasing [Where We Go from Here](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9781250163264) at the end of November.  

>I announced for President in the Spring of 2015  

-Bernie, [Sept 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O820i91dp1w&feature=youtu.be&t=2652)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: [He has an incredible appeal among young people](https://i.redd.it/zqtkx2garvt11.jpg) who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...  

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is[ most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720)  

>It became clear. There were stories about him [going to Iowa and other things. Doing a little pre-tour around the country](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive), where he was well received. So it became clear that he was thinking about running for President.   

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=675)  

>if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process.   

-[Bernie, Nov 8^th 2017](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPLvO0lMAPs&feature=youtu.be&t=255)  

>[Q: Are you willing to announce you're *not* running?] No.    

-Bernie, [Aug 15^th '18](https://youtu.be/dUIA_Ga6q4E?t=158)  

>Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)",Chartis,e8aux29,SandersForPresident
"Generally, yes, as the early voters tend to be older people. However, it should still not be this bad",timpinen,e8ajl1v,SandersForPresident
😄,Towns-a-Million,e895qqi,SandersForPresident
Should have been Abdul.,BopTheDrass,e8awn4r,SandersForPresident
"Michigan 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://webapps.sos.state.mi.us/MVIC/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e89n889,SandersForPresident
"In the 2016 campaign Bernie won [~1/3rd more votes from those under 30](http://civicyouth.org/exclusive-analysis-donald-trump-and-the-youth-vote/) than Trump & Clinton combined.  

In the general, Millennials & Gen Xers together [cast more votes than older generations combined.](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/07/31/millennials-and-gen-xers-outvoted-boomers-and-older-generations-in-2016-election/)  

---  

>We got more votes than Trump & Clinton combined. And as a result many of the ideas which we raised (which were then considered to be radical & extreme), because we stood together fighting for justice those ideas are not radical anymore. They're supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people.

-Bernie, [Oct 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtDH2XfY1ko&feature=youtu.be&t=3472)  

>Getting young people involved in the political process will determine how successful we are and will in fact determine the future of this country. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://twitter.com/NYTLive/status/1047880870957371393)  

>Bernie is the strongest candidate, for this reason: He has an incredible appeal among young people who may or may not vote... Another thing is Bernie Sanders' incredible strength with independent voters...

>What candidate can put together the coalition that is [most likely to beat Trump](https://www.commondreams.org/sites/default/files/users/user20551/180821_2020_matchup_sidebar.png), and kick out a bunch of other Republicans as well? That's the calculus that he's going over in his mind...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1720) 

>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)  

>Young people are the future of this country. You are leading this country. Together we will create a country that works for all, not just a few. 

-Bernie, [Oct 21^st '18](https://www.instagram.com/p/BpKVhpYBGkW/?taken-by=berniesanders)






",Chartis,e8a9j06,SandersForPresident
"Next time someone tells you ""young people are too lazy to vote"" understand they are full of shit and lying to you.
 
We just want candidates who aren't stuck in the 80s and understand the economic and social struggles young people have to go through. 

Why would a young person, short on time working and studying crazy hours, take precious time out of their day to vote for someone who not only acts in the interests of old rich people, but actively works to screw over young people?",BopTheDrass,e8axldt,SandersForPresident
"Just like we have to share-and-share-alike & stand-on-our-own-two, we must also produce attractive candidates & foster a cultural responsibility to vote no matter what if our strength is to be enough to overcome the challenges that hinder remedy to our pain.  ",Chartis,e8axqv9,SandersForPresident
"Don’t forget, White women voted for Trump.",FlaskyTg,e8af6ob,SandersForPresident
"already went :D

&#x200B;

The lines at my polling place were the longest I've seen for an off year.  

&#x200B;

It wasnt like the above pick, but I went at 1pm and I live in Downtown Dallas.",jake3030,e89pu3y,SandersForPresident
"If Beto actually manages to oust Cruz from the senate, I think I'd need to throw a party.. I care about all the other races too for sure, but there's nothing that would make me happier than seeing that smarmy asshole lose his seat to the first democrat in over 25 years (and the first truly liberal one ever)..",MagniGames,e8a6uhp,SandersForPresident
"This was in Coppell around 6 pm. The line got longer as I was leaving, too!",neurocentricx,e89pxg9,SandersForPresident
"I agree. This race is very important to me and not just because I live in the state. 

If Beto wins, it's gonna change a lot about how people view politics here. ",neurocentricx,e8ahuxt,SandersForPresident
"Throw a party now & increase the likelihood of it happening.  

>Go out and get your:  

>* co-workers
>* family members  
>* neighbors  
>* acquaintances

>to the polls... you don't have to wait for November 6th. Take 'em to the polls now. Tell them if you can take them to the polls you'll cover a nice dinner tonight. How's that?  

-Bernie, [Oct 22^nd '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtDH2XfY1ko&feature=youtu.be&t=2777)",Chartis,e8a7tyq,SandersForPresident
">Read this story of an Oklahoma teacher who decided to vote for Democrats after the teacher strikes  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1977884052266589)  ",Chartis,e89008m,SandersForPresident
"It should never have been red in the first place, derp.
",PM_ME_CLOTHED_PIX,e89996q,SandersForPresident
oh please win... must be 6 points close by now,4now5now6now,e895les,SandersForPresident
"Iowa 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://mymvd.iowadot.gov/Account/Login?ReturnUrl=%2fVoterRegistration): October 27, 2018 

[General Election](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/pdf/absenteeballotapp.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8ahdv2,SandersForPresident
"[@BernieSanders:](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1054402590123966465)  

* Almost 2 out of 3 Americans did not vote in 2014. As a result, extreme-right wing Republicans swept the midterms.

 This year is going to be different. If young people vote in 2018, you will transform America.
",Chartis,e88ux10,SandersForPresident
Credit to [Tom Toles](https://twitter.com/tomtolestoons?lang=en),Chartis,e88ymbz,SandersForPresident
Mitch McConnell is the least funny cartoon carter I’ve ever seen,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e89xdn6,SandersForPresident
"Facts are less funny...

&#x200B;

[https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/23/are-republicans-seeking-get-rid-medicare-medicaid-social-security/?utm\_term=.ceb3a963cd78](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/10/23/are-republicans-seeking-get-rid-medicare-medicaid-social-security/?utm_term=.ceb3a963cd78)",JoeTheEconomist,e8blws4,SandersForPresident
">We have become far too comfortable with the United States engaging in military interventions all over the world. The time is long overdue for Congress to reassert its constitutional role in determining when and where our country goes to war.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157400922917908)",Chartis,e88sn3p,SandersForPresident
">Mr. Trump, you are on the wrong side of history. Discrimination has no place in our society. We must stand with transgender people.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157401134252908)",Chartis,e8ads59,SandersForPresident
"Iowa 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://mymvd.iowadot.gov/Account/Login?ReturnUrl=%2fVoterRegistration): October 27, 2018 

[General Election](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/pdf/absenteeballotapp.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8ahe34,SandersForPresident
"Jane Sanders Retweeted [@Sifill_LDF:](https://twitter.com/Sifill_LDF/status/1054012779504517121)  

* It is my sincere hope that any media stories on the so-called “caravan” will take the time & responsibility to remind Americans about our country’s interference in places like Honduras & El Salvador that contributed to the conditions in those countries over decades.
   

[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1054360875811962881)  

* Donald Trump illegally didn’t pay taxes on more money than we send in foreign aid to Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador combined per year.  


[James Zogby:](https://twitter.com/jjz1600/status/1054369424214581249)  


* Here he goes again! Trump replaying the racist fear of brown folk that he used in 2016. (The “unknown Middle Easterners” is a new line).  

[@JamilSmith:](https://twitter.com/JamilSmith/status/1054163071785037824)  

* Words matter. Is it AP style to call migrants an “army”—above a photo of mothers tending to their infants and toddlers, no less? This is not only incorrect, but it enables a racist narrative sold by this POTUS and his supporters. Armies invade. These people are running away.",Chartis,e8adj92,SandersForPresident
"[Stache of Iron](https://i.imgur.com/sMZPdGo.gif)  

[@IronStache](https://twitter.com/IronStache)  

[For Congress](https://www.randybryceforcongress.com/)",Chartis,e89kiap,SandersForPresident
"**Direct link**: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/oct/19/georgia-governor-race-voter-suppression-brian-kemp

---
^^I'm&#32;a&#32;bot&#32;-&#32;[Why?](https://np.reddit.com/user/amp-is-watching-you/comments/970p7j/why_did_i_build_this_bot/)&#32;-&#32;[Ignore&#32;me](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=amp-is-watching-you&subject=ignore&message=If%20you%20click%20%27send%27%20below%2C%20the%20following%20action%20will%20be%20taken%3A%0A%0A%2A%20The%20bot%20will%20ignore%20you%0A%0AYou%20will%20receive%20a%20confirmation%20in%20reply.)&#32;-&#32;[Source&#32;code](https://github.com/bvanrijn/aiwy)",amp-is-watching-you,e89xbb8,SandersForPresident
"[NomikiKonst:](https://twitter.com/NomikiKonst/status/1054424680906608640): 

* Talked about why more Americans are identifying with democratic socialism, how that plays into the Democratic Party & what the NYC Public Advocate position means to me.

 If DSA sees a spike in Greek membership, you know what’s up 😝

https://act.dsausa.org/donate/membership",Chartis,e890gz0,SandersForPresident
I just got my absentee ballot and she is not on it. what gives? do you have to live in Manhattan to vote for her?,rageingnonsense,e898mli,SandersForPresident
"These people are as much of an enemy as the Trumpets. They block the only guaranteed way to defeat Trump, so they are just as big a part of the problem. Not to mention, their ideology and strategies are the reason we have Trump in the first place.",BopTheDrass,e892ocs,SandersForPresident
Wow they just gave Bernie an awesome endorsement.,Zincoshine_2018,e898z5h,SandersForPresident
"There’s a reason Bernie is the only candidate that neoliberal group Third Way won’t get behind, they know he can’t be bought or sold, apparently they think Warren can be",Greg06897,e891w8u,SandersForPresident
And I'm closed to anybody the Third Way is open to.,flashbangbaby,e89jdqo,SandersForPresident
"Ok then, for the sake of unity Kshama Sawant 2020.",revolution2018,e898vxa,SandersForPresident
I've been saying this since 2016.  The republicans didn't win the election- the democrats chose to lose it.,drummer_San,e8966pv,SandersForPresident
"[@OurRevolution:](
https://twitter.com/OurRevolution/status/1054496367735791616)  

* Student loan debt is already at an astonishing $1.5 trillion, and by all accounts, it’s only going to get worse. 

 We must not continue to saddle people with a lifetime of debt for simply seeking an education — we need tuition-free college for all.  
",Chartis,e89jv6v,SandersForPresident
What about the 1.5 trillion already outstanding?,daiyuesen,e8baamo,SandersForPresident
">[Under the Sanders plan, the formula for setting student loan interest rates would go back to where it was in 2006. If this plan were in effect today, interest rates on undergraduate loans would drop from 4.29% to just 2.37%.](https://berniesanders.com/issues/its-time-to-make-college-tuition-free-and-debt-free/)  

Though perhaps in 2020 he'll go farther: https://www.thenation.com/article/canceling-student-debt-would-stimulate-the-economy-and-voter-turnout",Chartis,e8baof1,SandersForPresident
Perhaps doesn't get my vote.,daiyuesen,e8bwnyd,SandersForPresident
"Feel free to press the benefits of the policy position to him as a public officer and as Senatorial candidate:  

https://www.sanders.senate.gov/contact  

Info@berniesanders.com  ",Chartis,e8bwyl0,SandersForPresident
"I mean it's better than doing nothing, but this is only after the Saudis killed an American journalist? Not when they massacre, and continue to massacre, Yemeni civilians? Not when they exported, and continue to export, Salafist ideology around the world? Not when Saudi figures were implicated in aiding the (mostly Saudi) 9/11 attackers?",BopTheDrass,e88zbrc,SandersForPresident
">Germany did the right thing by halting arms deals with Saudi Arabia. We should not be selling weapons to a country that murders journalists and kills thousands of innocent people in Yemen. The United States must follow Germany's lead and go further by ending involvement in the Saudi-led war in Yemen. We cannot have an ally who kills dissidents in cold blood.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1977821462272848)",Chartis,e88swpt,SandersForPresident
UN says 10 million in Yemen will die.  We are helping the saudis do it. ,4now5now6now,e896tbi,SandersForPresident
"To be precise, Germany just halted the decisions on future arms deals, at least for the moment. Deals that have been approved already but have not been carried out yet, are not halted.
Source (in German): http://www.spiegel.de/politik/deutschland/ruestungsexporte-warum-liefert-deutschland-waffen-nach-saudi-arabien-a-1234484.html",horstenporst,e8a8xdq,SandersForPresident
"- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)",Chartis,e86gxb8,SandersForPresident
This post was shadow banned on r/politics. Also almost no US media is covering this.,Forest_of_Mirrors,e864rrl,SandersForPresident
Is this... Real? Because if so... We gotta get this message out,Stratiform,e86beq5,SandersForPresident
">There is no political movement in Saudi Arabia that could pressure MBS, number one. And the world is happy with him. Do you see anybody in America except for Bernie Sanders who is calling for putting pressure on MBS? I only saw Bernie Sanders, but no one else.

-[Jamal Khashoggi](https://www.newsweek.com/jamal-khashoggi-secret-interview-saudi-murder-prince-mbs-islam-america-1178489)",Chartis,e86h5vi,SandersForPresident
Wait how is this not the front page of the NYT?,KirsaMint,e869nb9,SandersForPresident
"[@SenSanders:](https://twitter.com/SenSanders/status/1054048766850985986)  

* Too many Americans have fought and died to defend democracy. We cannot have a president who applauds a murdering despot as a ‘strong person’ who ‘truly loves his country.’",Chartis,e86o9y0,SandersForPresident
Bernie could’ve been the greatest president we’ve had in a long time. If not THE greatest president. ,FlyLikeATachyon,e870in5,SandersForPresident
"Anti-Saud sentiment is high in the U.S. 

Spread this article!",caejacks,e86fkpj,SandersForPresident
Time to feel the Bern!! ,W_Anderson,e86bih8,SandersForPresident
Now THIS is the kind of thing that built the viable 2016 candidate.,hyliandanny,e86qapw,SandersForPresident
I can't believe this is the first I'm hearing of this? ,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e87qphp,SandersForPresident
Not sure if this is real. We should do some more research first because if it is real this needs to be out there for Bernie! Otherwise it’s just hearsay at this point,yup_username_checks,e86elso,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e86rm6p,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e87nndm,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e873uwe,SandersForPresident
"Looking for more?  

>If you can afford to -- and ONLY if you can afford to -- please consider making a donation:  

- [Donate to Bernie's tour](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-whitmer-watson?refcode=fb181020-nationalpost&fbclid=IwAR0p3Mpequi3YKSC3q0_mEg78odqk9jTyQx0PguCMRQm8WTQa4lUZFdelwc)  
- [Donate only to Bernie](https://secure.actblue.com/donate/bernie-reddit)  ",Chartis,e86nn7g,SandersForPresident
"The establishment is scared shitless of Bernie Sanders and as far as I am concerned there could be no better endorsement.

If he runs I will vote for him as I did two years ago.

He is the same person he was in 1960 but even more so.",xxoites,e866tjh,SandersForPresident
By design.,mh732,e86ey3y,SandersForPresident
"Ah, I could have sworn it was at the top of politics at one point.... then all of a sudden poof* it’s no more. So thanks for explaining that. ",ImCerealsGuys,e86q9kf,SandersForPresident
"Post just left the home page for me too. Was second-top post, now is nowhere to be found ",NickolaosDSA,e86xdtg,SandersForPresident
Of course it is...,Thefriendlyfaceplant,e869uis,SandersForPresident
"For what it is worth I attempted to post it there and the error message was that it was the site source that was the reason it could not be posted.  So, if it's not a website that usually protects the corporate Dems, it's never allowed, not just this particular article. They control the narrative by controlling which sources are acceptable to the subreddit. This change happened nearly a year ago, so it's a systemic problem not just an individual ban ",overthereoverhere2,e86sbnq,SandersForPresident
what a gutter trash subreddit,thedarkcheese,e86vz23,SandersForPresident
"Lol, it had almost 80.000 upvotes and is the 2nd most popular post of last week on r/politics 

https://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/9puxaw/in_secret_final_interview_jamal_khashoggi_says/

You're just a day late and that might have gotten it deleted. But christ how did this comment get so many upvotes here. 

Edit: https://www.reddit.com/top/?sort=top&t=week proof it is number 2",Bardali,e88q5dy,SandersForPresident
Real. [Here's the audio recording.](https://www.newsweek.com/jamal-khashoggi-secret-interview-saudi-murder-prince-mbs-islam-america-1178489),BopTheDrass,e86gyiu,SandersForPresident
The original cover story is on Newsweek.,mandy009,e86tp5h,SandersForPresident
"His campaign (or at least an unaffiliated pro-Bernie group) needs to make a TV ad with only this quote for 2020. 

Not only does the quote say everything you need to know about Bernie (and also the establishment), it would put Trump and his supporters in the position of defending radical Islamic terrorism.",BopTheDrass,e86hazc,SandersForPresident
"Not to demean the dead, but I think he missed Tulsi 

https://gabbard.house.gov/news/press-releases/rep-tulsi-gabbard-condemns-new-us-arms-sale-saudi-arabia
",nphased,e87un5m,SandersForPresident
"If he said Hillary was the only one standing up to the Saudis, you can be sure it would be all over the NYT and the WaPo. But because the establishment media always protects their own, they're never allowed to concede that Bernie might be right. Yet another sign that they've learned nothing from 2016 and are barreling towards another attempted coronation in 2020.",Splax77,e86gc8l,SandersForPresident
"...will be...
Bernie 2020",jt25617,e87g9or,SandersForPresident
"The current president reflects the current population of the US. The majority of people are disgustingly unhealthy and poorly developed, which obviously impacts brain function. Anyone who paid attention to the differences in crowds of the 3 main candidates would notice they were separated into blatantly distinct phenotypes/tiers of health. 

Generations of unhealthy people having kids, then being saved from death by modern medicine like antibiotics, then going on to use their even more damaged bodies to create even more damaged people. Those damaged people vote for policies that make the situation even worse, such as anti-environmental & anti-regulation policies. 

We've been accelerating downhill, and since this is a democracy I see no way of stopping it. 

People with the intelligence & integrity of Sanders are ridiculously rare. ",MaximilianKohler,e87xtcd,SandersForPresident
Always that time.,xxoites,e8745o5,SandersForPresident
"So, it’s unsaid but understood that right after midterms we all start saying “feel the bern” again right?",TTheorem,e87bc6k,SandersForPresident
And one you cannot find corporate media reporting.,Forest_of_Mirrors,e86qcfm,SandersForPresident
Under reported for a reason. ,Forest_of_Mirrors,e87qrpq,SandersForPresident
[Audio clip of the interview](https://www.newsweek.com/jamal-khashoggi-secret-interview-saudi-murder-prince-mbs-islam-america-1178489),BopTheDrass,e86gzdv,SandersForPresident
It is very real.,xxoites,e87471w,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e86rzef,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87s6wa,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e877ig3,SandersForPresident
They're too busy trying to set up Warren vs Sanders and the left eating itself to give Biden a clear pass.,Inquisitr,e86qp6s,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e86a1ge,SandersForPresident
That's everything. They control the sources and right now very few sources are reporting on this.,Forest_of_Mirrors,e86snkn,SandersForPresident
Inquisitr is generally not the best,chupacabrando,e87v9j0,SandersForPresident
TRULY.,Forest_of_Mirrors,e86wjo0,SandersForPresident
He was making the shadow banned stuff up though. ,Bardali,e88yzbg,SandersForPresident
...damn. This is one of those things where I realize my support of Senator Sanders isn't just confirmation bias or partisanship. He's genuinely one of the most ethical and important Americans... Ever? Certainly today.,Stratiform,e86igne,SandersForPresident
Thanks.,sushinini,e87b8xk,SandersForPresident
"Strike while the iron's hot. [Here's some inspiration.](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/wiki/art)  

A lot of which were produced by the grassroots.  

Help Bernie rally the vote for the midterms while calling out MBS & Trump. Video production not your thing, unwilling to learn, & don't know anyone capable? Activism links are in the sidebar.",Chartis,e86hx2x,SandersForPresident
[Here's something](https://i.imgur.com/xb62wu4.png),chimpaman,e86nx74,SandersForPresident
"This is so much beyond establishment media. This is the powers that control the world actively manipulating our reality. We are all living participants in their show. It's their world, we just live in it. The media is just a tool of mass manipulation.

",sublimeone,e86jepe,SandersForPresident
You would think the murder of one of their own would change that. ,KirsaMint,e873469,SandersForPresident
"I’m sorry but I don’t buy this. I am sure Trump accurately represents a significant portion of the population. But he still lost the popular vote. And most people didn’t vote at all. And there was a lot of shady shit going on with the election. 

Most Americans oppose Trump, and never supported him at any point. ",FlyLikeATachyon,e87zguv,SandersForPresident
You should probably get that checked out,GutteralStoke,e87h7cz,SandersForPresident
"The audio sounds distorted around the time he is talking highly of Bernie, seems a little fishy though I I want it to be true.",spankmanspliff,e87z3ax,SandersForPresident
We don't have any need to allow them to manipulate us.,xxoites,e86so2c,SandersForPresident
I swear to god if he gets the nomination. ,WizardyoureaHarry,e870abp,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e86d8f1,SandersForPresident
"I don't particularly disagree, but sometimes you need a secondary news sources when the main sites wont pick  up a story. ",overthereoverhere2,e87xn4x,SandersForPresident
Quite likely since at least 1960.,xxoites,e873rul,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e883xmr,SandersForPresident
"""What if I told you the exact same thing I have been saying for forty years?""

It is fifty eight years.",xxoites,e873zd7,SandersForPresident
Foresight 2020.,xxoites,e8741z1,SandersForPresident
"I like a lot of these, but [this](https://i.imgur.com/umpIxav.jpg) is my favorite so far.

Give me another hour and I may get through the rest of them.",xxoites,e875kdx,SandersForPresident
spare me. Bezos owns WaPo. it's all a joke. ,no-mames,e877lvr,SandersForPresident
"> he still lost the popular vote

And who won it? The 2nd most unhealthy group of people. 

[I agree there was shady shit during this](https://old.reddit.com/r/WayOfTheBern/comments/4v6be1/my_collection_of_reasons_why_i_will_not_be_voting/), and other, elections. But all over the country I see the blatantly more intelligent person getting severely outvoted. The kinds of people being voted into office is nothing short incredibly alarming. 

>And most people didn’t vote at all. 

This is an interesting point, which there is a lot to discuss, but overall the vast majority of people are extremely unhealthy, and only getting more so. 

See https://medium.com/@MaximilianKohler/a-critical-look-at-the-current-and-longstanding-ethos-of-childbearing-the-repercussions-its-been-6e37f7f7b13f for more discussion & citations. ",MaximilianKohler,e87zp9m,SandersForPresident
I did. The doctor says I'm fine.,xxoites,e883we5,SandersForPresident
I know what you're saying but it could be worse. I'm legitimately concerned they're going to try and run Hillary again,CreamyGoodnss,e87ia8p,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e86nosv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e88lo6k,SandersForPresident
Yea I am glad Hillary will never be known as the first female president. I hope Elizabeth Warren earns that title instead. ,WizardyoureaHarry,e87o5sm,SandersForPresident
Will Macavoy 2020,Cheyenne_Bodi,e87lq6w,SandersForPresident
Get rid of corporate political donations. Limit real people to 2000 dollars max.,pnasmaster,e88g417,SandersForPresident
"So, what happened?",AlexS101,e87x63q,SandersForPresident
"I'd like to add #TaxExcessiveWealth.  Without taking away much of the money the ultra rich already have and only taxing their new wealth, we cannot pull back from the oligarchy we are in.",TaxExempt,e88vi9c,SandersForPresident
"Great thanks for reminding me that I was born in the wrong era, I don't have a time machine man",haesforever,e89vke1,SandersForPresident
How about don't fucking tax anyone?,350Points,e886whu,SandersForPresident
"I’d love for this to happen too, but that’s not the only thing Bernie would change, unfortunately. I will not live in a socialist nation. 
No, our current commander in chief is not any better.",ImprovingKodiak,e8744h0,SandersForPresident
"You don’t get it, all of those things GIVE more control and regulation to government. Government doesn’t need MORE power. Good grief. I wish all that would happen is the right thing, but when someone comes into power, the become less of the thing they wanted to and just do whatever wrong their colleagues do.",ImprovingKodiak,e876q9l,SandersForPresident
[The Heritage Foundation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Heritage_Foundation) happened. Later on [Americans for Prosperity](https://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php/Americans_for_Prosperity) happened. ,horstenporst,e88176b,SandersForPresident
I don't understand the joke you are making here,Teiresias666,e887foe,SandersForPresident
"We won’t be a socialist nation, we will return to being a nation of capitalist enterprise balanced with socialist safety nets. Which is what made us great in the first place.",aloysius345,e87e6or,SandersForPresident
Lol ok,businesskitteh,e875gxw,SandersForPresident
This is one of the Russian bots,Pacifist-Warrior,e87lfst,SandersForPresident
"Who feeds you this bull? and better question is why do you swallow it? I could understand if you were rich and was just being self serving but that sure doesn't seem to be the case.

You are saying you don't want better schools for your kids because the government will provide them. ",decatur8r,e87mrog,SandersForPresident
"Because gosh, Socialism is a scary word and if we tried it we'd do away with all successful aspects of our society just to make rich people pay for stuff. 

Seriously? Are you for real? What are you so afraid will happen, OTHER then having our taxes and wages no longer be garnished away from is with impunity? Afraid we'll turn into Venezuela? A rational fear, except we have enormously more resources and reliable (yeah, I said it) governance than Venezuela EVER had. Even today.


So get your sad, defeatist attitude out of here. We've all no use for it. Especially you. You can do better. ",Crocigator,e876kxi,SandersForPresident
"You already live in a socialist nation.  

Medicare/Medicaid.  Social security.  Education.  Public works.  Fire departments.  Police departments.  Subsidized utilities.  Subsidized agriculture.  NATIONAL DEFENSE, which is really just the largest socialist jobs bill in the world.  

The truth is corporations and the rich pay lots of money to make you afraid of socialism because it is going to cost THEM money.  

That’s it.  

They make a word the boogie man that strikes fear in the minds of uneducated voters, no offense, like you.

",Mr_Moogles,e884zle,SandersForPresident
"Nothing in this post actually gives more control to the government. For example, more/better schools: everyone is already expected to go to school, building new and better ones just makes sure they aren't going to trash heaps with leaky ceilings and textbooks from the 90s. No additional control from the government, lots of benefits for students.",incathuga,e87csjd,SandersForPresident
Why is having functioning public schools bad? We are supposedly the richest country in the world and all our services suck because we keep putting Republicans in charge that sabotage them. We need to get them out of office and have them pay their fair share. ,ijustgotheretoo,e87nup0,SandersForPresident
"People are so afraid of the government having power because they keep electing politicians that use the governments power to screw them over, i.e. Republicans.  People don’t think the government works because Republicans MAKE SURE it doesn’t. ",Mr_Moogles,e884ss8,SandersForPresident
Money as speech happened. I approve this message,pnasmaster,e88g6gi,SandersForPresident
There is no joke. They're just stupid.,Etamitlu,e88kxdo,SandersForPresident
I thought being the straw that broke the British empire back is what made us great.,the_negativest,e8evykk,SandersForPresident
"That would be excellent. But like I said, the good things aren’t the only changes Bernie plans to make. It would be great if they were.",ImprovingKodiak,e87m5le,SandersForPresident
"Who fed what? What bull? You mean the fact that I understand the definitions of the words capitalist and socialist and how they are directly opposing one another?

I’m not against any of the things the post was about. I am only against more socialism, which in turn means more government control. That’s the facts. 

Why is everyone so ready to jump down my throat even tho I’m not being ornery, or negative, or condescending?  ",ImprovingKodiak,e87o8lg,SandersForPresident
">NATIONAL DEFENSE, which is really just the largest socialist jobs bill in the world. 

I agree. I love military people. I work with many of them everyday. But, there is a vast waste of money spent toward recruiting new soldiers for a war that doesn’t exist. 

>no offense

Much offense. I admit I have been an uneducated voter in the past but no more. I’ve read the issues. I know where I stand. There is no real difference between socialism and democratic socialism. We are and independent republic and should remain as such. 

Corporations should pay fair taxes. Once again, it would be great if all Bernie was changing was getting more out of the fat cow corporations that do nothing but profit and sit on their earnings and enjoy lavish lifestyles while in the same city people are dying of hunger due to lack of education and healthcare. But that’s not all he’ll change. I’m sorry, YOU’RE the uneducated. I’m sorry you can’t see that an human can be flawed. Not Bernie, not Warren, not any PERSON will be a perfect leader. They will have a shortcoming somewhere. Trump has several shortcomings, and I’m glad I didn’t vote for him. ",ImprovingKodiak,e88l14l,SandersForPresident
Taxation is theft.,350Points,e89um5f,SandersForPresident
"30,000 people die per year due to lack of healthcare. ",ijustgotheretoo,e87nw4x,SandersForPresident
"You're not saying what the ""bad things"" are. Is this intentional?",Crunkbutter,e87uvq8,SandersForPresident
What are the other changes he would make?,RJHSquared,e87u2q8,SandersForPresident
"> I understand the definitions of the words capitalist and socialist and how they are directly opposing one another?

That very statement is an oxymoron. They coexist in every country to some degree. Bernie is not going to change the constitution, just the tax code.   ",decatur8r,e87ojqs,SandersForPresident
"Why don’t you move to the Forrest if you don’t want to pay taxes. Live off the land, and don’t use any public roads ",carminedg123,e8a2joz,SandersForPresident
Thanks for showing up and proving my statement.,Etamitlu,e8amlka,SandersForPresident
"No. Everyone’s downvoting me to hell. So I can’t reply fast enough. “Wait 15 minutes before commenting again.” 
I didn’t necessarily say bad things, just unwanted. For starters, he wants a free college tuition. Last I checked that is not the purpose of local government to provide me with a college education. As I stated in a previous comment, the issue there is not that we need it to be free, just affordable. That doesn’t come from a state or a federal government. It’s the colleges and universities themselves. 

Bernie wants to allow more undocumented immigrants to come into America at the Mexican boarder. We don’t need more of them. They can pursue the due process and become a citizen legally as they are supposed to. 

A free living wage. Again, the issue here is not government’s involvement.  It is the companies themselves not properly structuring their pay. That is not for the government to step over and intervene and say no. Pay people more. For example the service industry. Waiters shouldn’t need to rely on tips to get by. And on the other side, maybe people should aim for better jobs. Pipe fitters, welders, trash workers, maintenance, construction, roofing, etc. there’s no shortage of those jobs where I am. The jobs themselves that politicians always say, “we’re gonna create more jobs.” It’s not that there’s a lack of jobs. There’s a lack of desire to get your hands dirty. (Not you, per se.) Many people I talk to are so against manual labor and effort they just want more wages for less work. That’s not how a capitalist, free enterprise system thrives. ",ImprovingKodiak,e87vyqa,SandersForPresident
"“Just the tax code.” 
Ok, we’ll see I guess.

Also, you all realize all downvoting me does is make me unable to comment so we can have a discussion, right? Thanks for the freedom. 

Last time I checked, it wasn’t the government’s job to GIVE me free healthcare. The heart of the problem is not we need free healthcare. It is simply the cost of said healthcare and the current system has become so far priced above value and then some. Because hospitals, doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals know insurance companies cover many procedures and tests, the gap has grown to disassociate the human from the price. 

I’m not against anything else on this list. Please, stop verbally harassing me. Conversations can go on without demeaning someone. Goodness.",ImprovingKodiak,e87p3ih,SandersForPresident
"This avoids not taxes sir. And you are aware that there were roads before income tax, and there will be roads after income tax?

Can't believe you just hit me with ""muh roads.""

And if one chooses to not pay for roads, they shouldn't use them; likewise, if one chooses not to pay for library and police services, then they should not access them. I am unsure as to how being forced to give someone money at the threat of violence and incarceration is not the definition of theft and thus inherently unfair. Whereas, the argument in the piece of propaganda we are discussing is that people should be stolen from different at rates proportionate their sucsess.",350Points,e8c4s9m,SandersForPresident
"I'm unsure as to how threatening someone with violence or imprisonment, and a resentment of this situation, unless they give them their money proves your point.

Income tax is bullshit. It is theft plain and simple. A weighted consumption tax is the fairest scenario. Eliminates IRS, which is a good start for an orderly dissolution of the federal government and a replacment there of with state and city-state governments. 

You're saying tax people at different rates. How does that ""level"" the playing field? If you're going to get mad about something, fiat money and corporate personhood. Taxes are a convoluted mess and a distraction from issues that will bring an end to our constitutions fulfillment. 

In closing, taxation is theft; further, taxation is theft; and moreover, taxation is theft.

PS taxation is theft.

PPS taxation is theft.",350Points,e8c3ydu,SandersForPresident
"The point of a democracy is that the voters DECIDE the purpose of a local/regional/federal government.  If people want free college, and vote for it, then that is what SHOULD happen on a DEMOCRACY.  I’m not even saying I’m for free college, doing that would be really complicated and it wouldn’t fit into the system we have now, but it is possible.  Maybe free community college or trade school would be beneficial to the economy?  

Second, who says Bernie wants more undocumented immigrants? He’s supportive of legalizing immigrants already here, but is also for securing and enforcing the border, and maybe make it easier for LEGAL immigration.  

FREE living wage? What does that even mean? Work is work.  We live in the wealthiest nation on Earth and if you work a full week you should be able to support yourself.  I honestly don’t see how people can argue with that.  Inflation does happen, yes, but at least people at the bottom won’t be struggling.  

Stop believing lies other people tell you or random shit you read on the internet.  Fuck it, don’t even believe me, go to the source and read for yourself.  We gotta stop playing one big game of telephone on the internet, people are losing the filters in their mind that detect bullshit.",Mr_Moogles,e884lwv,SandersForPresident
"> downvoting me 

I didn't

>it wasn’t the government’s job to GIVE me free healthcare.

see tax code...nothing is free, but healthcare is not something you deny people when they need it. But universal healthcare is a better. cheaper and more moral way to distribute it...see rest of the world.

>insurance companies

There is the problem making profit off the suffering of others deciding who lives and dies for profit.   ",decatur8r,e87phwi,SandersForPresident
"If everything was elective like you wish, the country would be in utter chaos. You expect the police to ask you first if you pay for “police services”  before they tell go if they are going to come to your aid?? How does that even work.  People become successful partly due to the investment society has made into infrastructure and other services. And someone makes profit because of society. Than they should pay taxes to contribute back into society. And doing so they would make more money because the economy is that much stronger. Because government spending allows people to have better access to the economy and therefore contribute and and make everyone richer.

If you sell a product on your property. People have to use roads and infrastructure to get there. Police and fire department are needed along the way. Then your profit should contribute to those services that you indirectly use.",carminedg123,e8c5453,SandersForPresident
We dont live in a democracy.... we live in a democratic republic... important distinction.,the_negativest,e8evzro,SandersForPresident
We dont live in a democracy.... we live in a democratic republic... important distinction.,the_negativest,e8evzxw,SandersForPresident
We dont live in a democracy.... we live in a democratic republic... important distinction.,the_negativest,e8ew0nf,SandersForPresident
"Sorry, that downvoting me part was not necessarily addressed to you. My bad.",ImprovingKodiak,e87u3cc,SandersForPresident
"Weighted consumption tax

Edit: this way you really can not pay taxes. Just make everything yourself. Dobt wanna pay. Dobt buy. It's the whole guns and living in a cage unless you pay up thing I dont like",350Points,e8c90ev,SandersForPresident
https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1054056752713555970,decatur8r,e891aaj,SandersForPresident
While this might be the most “fair” it would mean hundreds of millions would suffer. So it sounds great to you. But I’d never support this,carminedg123,e8c97nq,SandersForPresident
"That’s not the healthcare system’s fault. Unless you’re meaning the drug manufacturer is the healthcare system. That’s the corporation behind the system. I’m sure the system itself is to blame for many another inadequacy, but the price of drugs, is not set by a dr, nurse, or hospital.",ImprovingKodiak,e895wdz,SandersForPresident
"How exactly would millions suffer? You ever spend 4 hours talking to the IRS or DOE? Now that shit is SUFFERING.

It is NOT our government's job to take care of us like our parents should. Their job is that which is laid out in the constitution. If they want to change that then they need to amend it legally. The constitution is not a Choose Your Own Adventure tale. The more we water it down the worse this gets.

Also, there is suffering coming because we FID NOT PAY the piper in 2008. We just swept it under the rug and told it to be quiet.",350Points,e8cum97,SandersForPresident
So in a fair world people fail? That says something... I dont k ow what... but something,the_negativest,e8evwyc,SandersForPresident
"It is all part of the same system pharma, hospitals, doctors and insurance companies, nursing homes...all the healthcare system.

https://i.redd.it/vaaaknfbcrdz.jpg 
",decatur8r,e896lpc,SandersForPresident
"If she runs against Bernie, when she wouldn't run against Hillary, it would be made crystal clear she is an enemy of the progressive movement.",BopTheDrass,e892j47,SandersForPresident
I don’t see Warren too charismatic? She looks like a German grandma which I feel is not too influential for me. Her policies are progressive but will she gather the support she needs to beat Trump,asiasbutterfly,e893rjb,SandersForPresident
Have no problem with Warren running and I think she'd be good but I foresee a primary where we're once again told we need to disregard all public opinion polls showing Sanders is the much stronger candidate against Trump.,inthedollarbin,e891jw7,SandersForPresident
Please no,saul2015,e89b1pm,SandersForPresident
"After reading this article I saw at the bottom of the page that The Atlantic has a ""most popular"" article section.  The most popular article is currently titled [Elizabeth Warren Has Lost Her Way, Trump’s bullying so unnerved the senator that she resorted to a bizarre and tone-deaf move.](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/10/elizabeth-warren-shouldnt-have-shared-dna-test/573577/)

Sanders would win over Warren but the issue is that by having Warren run it will take away at least some votes from Sanders.  However, one thing I can't wait to see is just how many people and how much money comes pouring into Bernie's campaign the moment he announces.  I think that alone could impact some folks not to go up against him.  No other democratic candidate will be able to raise as much money as Sanders unless they take corporate or pac money.",Antarctica-1,e89lt3h,SandersForPresident
She's a woman so she'll immediately score points for that with most liberals. ,HotelKarma,e89m5tc,SandersForPresident
"> by having Warren run it will take away at least some votes from Sanders.

This is the entire reason the establishment wants Warren to run.

And why I think Warren herself wants to run. I do not trust her whatsoever. I hope I am proven wrong but I'm not willing to take that chance.",BopTheDrass,e89sydl,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](http://registertovote.ca.gov/): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/vote-mail/#apply): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8a57lq,SandersForPresident
"It honestly drives me nuts that he is much, much better than me at basketball.

No joke. I can't shoot for crap, and the dude is astonishingly consistent.",The_Popular_Populist,e87kycw,SandersForPresident
Damn. Hasn’t missed yet!,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e87kaw0,SandersForPresident
I was hoping to see him dunk but he’s got my vote either way.,CinnamonJ,e87j4kg,SandersForPresident
I bet Trump can't dribble.,slax03,e87s15x,SandersForPresident
"Bernie vs Trump game of 21

Play for our freedom ",whoknowsknowone,e88d8ch,SandersForPresident
"There's attacks against him because of his age, but not because of his health. It's hard to keep up with his schedule, both as a Senator and as leader of a national movement to revitalize American democracy.  

>If all of us are blessed to live long enough one day we will be 70, 80, 90 and how would we feel if somebody was discriminating against us based on our age? So that just really gets to me, not just because it's Senator Sanders but there's a whole generation of elders out there who have given so much and have so much left to give. That people just tolerate ageism bothers me a lot...  

-Nina Turner, [Nov 28^th](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AeMPjk2y91g&feature=youtu.be&t=392)   

Ageism is prohibited by our [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules), feel free to report any if you see it as a breach of rule #1.

>I am very happy that – and I thank God for this, I’m very lucky – I’m very blessed with my health … I literally cannot remember the last time I missed a day because of illness. I’ve been sick, but I go to work.  

-Bernie, Oct 19^th '18    


>I have few doubts about his physical stamina. There’s no sign of any decline in his mental faculties. In the worst case, vice presidents—especially well chosen, ideologically wellmatched vice presidents—provide a safeguard.

[It’s Time for the Left To Unite Behind Bernie 2020](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse)

>He's vibrant, he's capable, he's determined.

-[Jeff Merkley](http://freebeacon.com/politics/dem-senator-brushes-aside-concerns-bernies-age-2020-vibrant-capable-determined/)  

",Chartis,e88ngv1,SandersForPresident
This would have been a great video during the last election season.  The backboard even has the year he should have been inaugurated printed on it.,Dunan,e88l8gs,SandersForPresident
"You mean ""Shareblue employees.""",S3lvah,e87umhh,SandersForPresident
Bernie is nothing if not consistent. ,filmantopia,e87ssff,SandersForPresident
Tulsi for Secretary of State 2020,BopTheDrass,e88s8ow,SandersForPresident
"Hawaii 2018 Election 

[General Election Early Voting](https://elections.hawaii.gov/voters/early-voting/): October 23 - November 3, 2018 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.hawaii.gov/register.aspx): October 31, 2018 

[General Election](https://elections.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/Voter-Registration-and-Permanent-Absentee-Application_Form-Fillable.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e89mqmm,SandersForPresident
"this guy is brilliant and the incumbent could have provided broadband for free with federal funds , knew about it.... and did not bother. He also vows to protectthe water. Very important job and is actually making headlines. Andrew is a Bernie supporter.",4now5now6now,e895d7j,SandersForPresident
">Part of taking on Wall Street’s greed and recklessness must include making sure that workers in the financial services industry, including low-paid bank tellers, are able to join a union. JP Morgan Chase CEO, Jamie Dimon, made $29.5 million last year while tellers at his bank are not paid a living wage. JP Morgan Chase is not a poor company. Last year, it made more than $24 billion. If we are serious about taking on Wall Street, reducing income and wealth inequality and rebuilding the disappearing middle class, we have got to substantially increase the number of union jobs in this country.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157401032842908)  ",Chartis,e898718,SandersForPresident
"Trump's TCJA costs [$9.5 trillion](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/115th-congress-2017-2018/reports/53884-apb2019.pdf) over 10 years.  83% of which [goes to benefit the 1%](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2017/12/18/16791174/republican-tax-bill-congress-conference-tax-policy-center). 


Divided by the [97,600,000](https://www.fool.com/taxes/2017/03/14/how-much-does-the-average-american-pay-in-taxes.aspx) taxpaying members of the 99% (minus the $1,671/y that helps fund accessible programs), that results in an average $6,373/y per person being transferred to the 1%. A tithe of **$17.46 being paid every day** of the year by workers to those making [$719,000](https://www.ssa.gov/cgi-bin/netcomp.cgi?year=2017) or more. All the while:  

&nbsp;  

>44% of adults could not cover an emergency expense costing $400. 

>The policies pursued over the past year seem deliberately designed to remove basic protections from the poorest, punish those who are not in employment, and make even basic health care into a privilege to be earned rather than a right of citizenship. This bodes ill for for society as a whole.

>The persistence of extreme poverty is a political choice made by those in power. 

---

>* Stop irrationally demonizing taxation and begin exploring how reasonable taxes can dramatically increase the social well-being of Americans and the country's economic competitiveness. 

>* Provide universal healthcare, as every other developed and many developing countries already do. This would rescue millions from misery, save money on emergency care, increase employment, and generate a healthier and more productive workforce.  

-[Philip Alston](https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=23243&LangID=E): UN Report on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights, June 22^nd 2018 | [Full Report](http://undocs.org/A/HRC/38/33/ADD.1)   

&nbsp;    

And worldwide it's even worse:  

[148,200 individuals have personal assets of over $50 million.](https://i.imgur.com/PDpDwLp.png) In total they own ~$31 trillion, 11% of global wealth is owned by a group that could fit inside a stadium.  

[$30 trillion is illegally hidden](https://gabriel-zucman.eu/files/AJZ2017b.pdf) resulting in trillions worth of taxes stolen from the public per year, a theft which is several times what's needed today to [effectively address climate change.](http://unionsforenergydemocracy.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/sternreview_report_complete.pdf)  

[The world's 2200 billionaires have 20% more wealth than 1/2 of Humanity combined.](https://static.poder360.com.br/2017/11/global-wealth-report-2017-en.pdf)    

>Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)  

>To fight today’s extreme inequality, we must strengthen the coalition of progressive democrats and challenge the global oligarchy.  

-Bernie Sanders: [A World for All of Us, Not Just the Billionaires](https://www.thenation.com/article/world-us-not-just-billionaires/)",Chartis,e88n5tm,SandersForPresident
Of course Bernie will make sure everyone wins,everykissbeginswK,e886wpg,SandersForPresident
One person shouldn’t be able to accumulate such a preposterous amount of personal wealth while their workers struggle to survive. These numbers show how disgusting Bezos’ greed is. ,AlfalfaWolf,e88lg59,SandersForPresident
Yes you should. He worked hard to earn that. If you don’t like it don’t buy from amazon.,capitalsquid,e88v8oc,SandersForPresident
This is called jealousy. Jeff Bezos doesnt have any more control over your money so much as you control his.,everykissbeginswK,e89lpxl,SandersForPresident
"Hard work is arbitrary and impossible to accurately quantify. How do you know how hard Jeff Bezos is working? How do you define hard work and how do you attach a value to the many variations and forms it comes in?

You’re engaging in a type of hero worship by assigning Bezos all the credit for Amazon’s success. There is no question that he hasn’t accomplished anything alone.

His $160B of net worth is mostly tied into market speculation concerning his corporation. On Wall Street, speculation fuels stock prices without a direct correlation to profits. Many things are factored into speculative trading, not all of them are even rational. Bezos has so much money now that his money makes more money for him in other such speculative trading. He can accrue assets that will inevitably gain in value over time. Most people would not consider this type of work to be as taxing as hard physical labor. This is considered to be ‘working smart, not hard’.

Let’s also point out the fact that Bezos’ hard work includes the buying off politicians to secure the fact that Amazon does not pay federal taxes. Bezos has skipped out on cities that do wish to charge taxes. Is his unwillingness to contribute, like everyone else is supposed to, to our tax system another sign of his hard work? Or has he more likely purchased that power through political means!

100%, we should support and fairly compensate those who are working hard. But it is repulsive to act as a champion for those who exploit labor, circumvent laws and hoard wealth in the name of hard work.",AlfalfaWolf,e8984g9,SandersForPresident
"I’m disgusted by Bezos. He’s accrued wealth on the backs of others and has chosen exploitation over compensation with his labor force. He is a product of our sick economic system and it’s made him
a slave to his own ambition. Our culture glorifies these power-hungry wealth-hoarders as if their greed is justified. There is no metric that supports one individual having so much wealth. It’s anti-competitive, it’s anti-humanitarian, it even bad economics. Setting aside billions of dollars keeps that money out of the system, it has no liquidity and therefore no utility for anyone but himself.

You don’t think Bezos has the ability to directly and indirectly control other people’s money when he can set prices and suppress wages? You’re taking such a naive and simplistic view of a very really big issue. I encourage you to think through your position more comprehensively.",AlfalfaWolf,e89s21q,SandersForPresident
"I mean,  he coordinates the movement of billions of dollars, hundreds of thousands of jobs, etc. He has a lot on his plate.

Yes his assets make him more money. You can do the exact same thing.

Not saying it’s right but every other company does exactly the same thing.

I don’t have any problem with his labour practices because no one is forced to work for Amazon.",capitalsquid,e89b7rr,SandersForPresident
"> I mean,  he coordinates the movement of billions of dollars, hundreds of thousands of jobs, etc. He has a lot on his plate.

We don’t know the extent of his involvement in Day-to-Day coordination of these things. He undoubtedly has employees and algorithms doing the brunt of this work for him. You can assume all you want though. No doubt, he is not lazy and he has a lot on his plate. Does this mean he is entitled to every penny of profit?

> Yes his assets make him more money. You can do the exact same thing.

63% of Americans don’t have $500 for an emergency. So no, most people can’t accumulate wealth off the growth of assets because they don’t have any assets.

> Not saying it’s right but every other company does exactly the same thing.

Precisely, it doesn’t necessarily feel right but everyone else is doing it. Your response shouldn’t be to justify these actions, instead you should look at the systemic problems that have allowed the wealth gap to grow. Corporations are authoritarian dictatorships. Employees have essentially zero say in the direction of a company or it’s decision making process. Worker cooperatives are the best way we can democratize the work place and give workers representation.

> I don’t have any problem with his labour practices because no one is forced to work for Amazon.

Amazon has monopolistic power and as a result has put many small businesses out of work. Just as Walmart has been doing for decades, but Amazon is now outcompeting them too. Because most people have very little money, they are buying from these companies for the low prices they offer, even if it is to their own eventual detriment. Amazon and Walmart are able to offer such low prices because they have undercut most competition by the shear volume of goods they can sale. They make money on margins in a very uncompetitive manner. This practice has destroyed employment alternatives in many communities. So in a way, many people are forced into jobs that do not fairly compensate just as a means of paying their bills. This is known as debt slavery. Amazon’s business practices have set a new, more oppressive precedent that other companies will try to model. So your resolution to the problem (don’t work there) is grossly short-sighted.

",AlfalfaWolf,e89cqlx,SandersForPresident
"With [Jeff's worth around $168 billion](https://www.zdnet.com/article/amazon-following-apple-briefly-joins-the-trillion-dollar-club/) and [Humanity's total wealth of ~$280 trillion](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/11/14/richest-1-percent-now-own-half-the-worlds-wealth.html) he owns  1/16,000^th of worldwide wealth.

Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud's is worth 1/10^th of that but his oil company is worth ~$1.2tr [(recently leaked and 40% less than the $2tr they claimed)](https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2018-10-22/worleyparsons-s-oil-services-deal-with-jacobs-is-a-hail-mary-pass). Other assets of his Kingdom aside he owns over .4% of Humanity's wealth.",Chartis,e89tkjp,SandersForPresident
"Hey I was thinking about what you said. There are plenty of other companies outside of amazons sphere of influence. Even if you are forced to work for amazon, they pay really well. Easily could afford rent and food and shit. I did a cost analysis of moving out and I could afford it all on a part time minimum wage job.",capitalsquid,e8b1fwt,SandersForPresident
"I wish you the best of luck. Hopefully you’re able to find cheap rent and not have to pay for car & health insurance.

If you are working 35 hours/week at $15/hour then you’d be bringing home about $1,700 month after taking out 20% for taxes. That seems pretty tight so hopefully you can bank some money for a safety net before you make the move.",AlfalfaWolf,e8b2wk3,SandersForPresident
Damn Americans in that bracket pay 20% taxes? That’s insane. ,capitalsquid,e8b46xv,SandersForPresident
What would you pay where you are from? ,AlfalfaWolf,e8b4szj,SandersForPresident
"Canada. Minimum wage in my province is 15CAD an hour. Google says I’d pay 15%. Rent here is like 500-1000 a month depending on location. Including water and everything. Beyond that, all ya really need is food and maybe dental if you don’t get that covered by work",capitalsquid,e8b5cs9,SandersForPresident
"Lol ok, but that somehow wasn’t true when Obama was president... I think ill take my arguments from someone with a consistent set of fiscal values, or any real fiscal values. ",nphased,e89de1i,SandersForPresident
"[Dr. Kelton is a Fellow at the Sanders Institute](https://www.sandersinstitute.com/about/kelton) and was Bernie's economic advisor during his 2016 campaign.  

For more please see: https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it",Chartis,e89dowi,SandersForPresident
"OK, but I still believe that this analysis of this article misses the point, or makes it's point badly.  I fully support that gov't spending can be beneficial, even deficit spending, as long at the spending yields social value. Medicare-for-all, and a number of programs included are beneficial. But deficit spending on an even higher defense budget for example, with Trumps tax cut, wasn't beneficial, if run long term our deficit and interest servicing will near then exceed our GDP, and then we will be severly limited in our financial options for the gov't, leading to a world of hurt for any programs, let alone progressive ones.

If we want to keep the way clear for spending on progressive programs, Medicare-for-all, free public university, student loan programs, I think it's clear that they provide long term positive investment value for the economy. But having a discussion on tax cuts on deficits and jobs is a almost as limiting as the myopic focus of the GOP on just tax cuts.",nphased,e89e4ha,SandersForPresident
"Currency is created when the federal government authorizes budgets. It's backed by natural resources, production capacity, & workflow hours. If what is produced is of net determent or results in further income or wealth inequality then it, by definition, is worthless. And if assets are produced or the economy is stimulated to work for everyone then it's of benefit.   

It's a disservice to our future efforts at using this mechanism for the power that it is when the simple creation of money is called out. Instead we can focus on the harm & pain that results from such productions and the inequality being purposely fostered.  ",Chartis,e89enr2,SandersForPresident
"I agree on the point that we should not think of money creation as something that needs to be constrained by the strict dictates of a political budget deficit, but there is still a problem if we treat currency production as unlimited (similar to environmental problems that result when we treat resource & economic growth as unlimited).   Money creation is still something that needs to be constrained compared to how well our economy is handling resources and production - and collecting adequate taxes still gives us more freedom to act on problems with the economy.  Dealing with inflation from underregulating deficit accumulation rates can lead just a bad a set of problems as austerity while ignoring money creation potential - it's just that in recent history we've been riding the austerity side of the equation. I also do not want the ride the inflation side of problems.

",nphased,e89frt9,SandersForPresident
Inflation happens when production decreases creating increasing demand. Her thoughts on the structure of the system concerning it are placed atop the foundational concept nicely. You likely know your stuff so viewing that lecture I linked and annotated should be an easy lift even at 1.5x speed. The framing is presented in a superb way that I find enhances understanding of how the topic is continuously presented.,Chartis,e89g4go,SandersForPresident
"I'll review that presentation more closely later if I can. I think I've actually read and found Dr Kelton's work pretty interesting in the past - in particular her work moving the analysis behind a jobs guarantee forward. I do wonder about this two-part breakdown perhaps not really being a helpful format, but maybe that sounds like I should hold my gripes until both parts are posted.",nphased,e89n12z,SandersForPresident
"For others that might be interested:  

>Strong political governance is required to accomplish the key
transitions. Market-based action will not suffice... There must be a
comprehensive vision and closely coordinated plans.  

 >Shift from a focus on individual cognition to social or structural dimensions of human behavior.  

 >As well as triggering the transition to sustainability, a job guarantee would ensure full employment, lessen insecurity & the need to compete for environmentally destructive jobs on individual & collective levels.

 -[UN Global Sustainable Development Report](https://bios.fi/bios-governance_of_economic_transition.pdf)   

---  
  The program pays a uniform wage of $15/h, for both part-time & full-time work... It also offers basic healthcare through and expansion of Medicare, as well as other basic benefits such as childcare—effectively establishing a minimum benefits pack.  

The PSE program is designed to ensure that all employers pay fair (living) wages, but without competing for employees or displacing private sector undertakings.  

The design targets job creation for workers with lower skills and education—since they have high unemployment & underemployment. PSE participation for workers with greater education and skills will be transitional until conditions improve... when labor markets are tight, employers will recruit workers out of the PSE program.  

By design, employment in the PSE program will move in a countercyclical pattern—growing in downturns and shrinking in recoveries as workers are pulled into the private sector. This helps to stabilize economic activity and household incomes. Economists call this an automatic stabilizer. The government’s budget will also move in a countercyclical manner as spending on the program cycles with the economy. This too helps to smooth cyclical fluctuations.  

We also see the advantages of decentralizing administration to the community level. Since the goal is to create jobs in every community, and to create projects that are beneficial to every community, it makes sense to involve the local communities in the projects from the proposal stage through to implementation, administration, & evaluation. We would allow state and local governments as well as registered nongovernmental, not-for-profits to putforth proposals.  

We expect that most of the jobs created will provide public services in nonprofit community organizations, public schools, and state & local governments. PSE workers could be used for very small public works projects (installing  playground equipment), simple maintenance  of  infrastructure  (planting vegetation as screening), and environmental retrofitting (adding insulation to housing in low-income neighborhoods or to community  buildings). A number of proposals for creation of workers’ cooperatives could be solicited. 

Proposals can be solicited for apprenticeship programs that would train PSE workers for skilled employment outside the program after a term.  

Scaling up to a national program that might employ 15 million workers will take time. The program will probably be phased in over a period of several years, both in terms of the numbers employed and the wages & benefits paid.  

There are approximately 15 million potential workers who would be likely to join the program.   

* 1 full-time worker could lift a family of up to 5 out of poverty
* 1 full-time & 1 part-time worker, a family of 8 could rise out of poverty. 
* In 2016, nearly 7.5 million people in families with a full-time worker lived in poverty. 
* 9.5 million children would be lifted out of poverty. 
* The average income gap of the 8 million families living in poverty in 2016 was $10,505—which is less than what a half-time job in the PSE would pay. 
* Direct spending on the program is just below 2.5% of GDP per year. (Excluding increases in tax revenue due to economic growth as well as potential savings on a wide range of federal, state, and local programs that are targeted to low-income households. In 2015 for example, the federal government spent  $104  billion  on  food and nutritional service programs.)  

---

TL;DR:  

* It's decentralized to ensure that it serves workers as well as the communities in which they live.  
* The program pays $15/h plus benefits, establishing a nationwide effective minimum compensation level.  
* It does not compete with private employers, beyond setting minimum labor standards.  
* Employment in the program moves countercyclically, against business cycle swings, helping to stabilize consumption, output, income, and employment.  
* In cyclical upswings, private employers recruit workers out of the program; in downturns, the program absorbs workers shed by private employers.  
* Access to paid work eliminates most poverty, making it easier to deal with the poverty that remains.  

-Selected highlights from [policy note](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/pn_18_2.pdf)  

-[Full Report](http://www.levyinstitute.org/pubs/rpr_4_18.pdf)",Chartis,e89nsun,SandersForPresident
"New York 2018 Election 

[General Election Date](https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspx): November 6, 2018",election_info_bot,e87ko4r,SandersForPresident
I would give you so much gold if I could! Keep up the enthusiasm :) Bring as many people to the polls as you can!,Berniecanuck,e87zkwu,SandersForPresident
"Hey DCCC, whatever happened to ""Blue No Matter Who?""",BopTheDrass,e877iy8,SandersForPresident
"Honestly, I would question the integrity of any “progressive” Democratic candidates taking DCCC money. This is a sign that they are truly good candidates.",Emass100,e87vv8z,SandersForPresident
"Nebraska 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://www.nebraska.gov/apps-sos-voter-registration/): October 26, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ne.gov/elec/voter_info.html#early): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e878yc1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e873uem,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #6. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e873y36,SandersForPresident
Of course they can. The question is *will* they?,BopTheDrass,e892xn3,SandersForPresident
BUT THE ECONOMY IS DOING AMAZING!!!! /s,Hole_In_Shoe_Man,e86ryvx,SandersForPresident
Eat the rich.,LBJsPNS,e86lxi0,SandersForPresident
"Top left is 0% in Norway... because the cost is 0 kroner.

Medical cost increase is also 0% for similar reason, you have to pay from your pocked for the first 2000 in a given year, but everything after that is completely free, unlimited. This does not include dental and eye care however.

Top right is true in Norway, its true everywhere. A constantly larger population means house prices will always be increasing. That's why real estate is known as the world's safest investment.

bottom right, oh man it has risen soooooooo much here. I don't have an exact percentage, but it is massive. Entry level for a programmer is 60,000 USD a year (before taxes)

middle bottom is 0% here, because we don't have a minimum wage. We don't have a minimum wage because with strong unions it isn't needed. They ensure the wages for everything are reasonable and fair.

bottom right, Norway has been an increase in CEO incomes ever since this center right government came to power, but I'm certain it is a waaaaaaaay lower increase than this.


",Zincoshine_2018,e86p76c,SandersForPresident
Saw in another thread the numbers are wrong.,6jarjar6,e86m3ey,SandersForPresident
"\> Top left is 0% in Norway... because the cost is 0 kroner.

&#x200B;

Not true, you're ignoring Semesteravgift. 

&#x200B;",ayatollah_baloney,e86tcvh,SandersForPresident
"Real estate as an ""investment"" is for parasites. They add no value and inflate costs.",ravenouscraving,e87snvu,SandersForPresident
"Whoops, I forgot about that. In any case that's so tiny.",Zincoshine_2018,e87acfo,SandersForPresident
"I think you’re taking about “flippers”? It is an investment as a regular homeowners as long as you don’t buy more house than you can afford. 

I can rent a house for about the same price as my mortgage + tax, but at the end of the 10 years living in my rental I pack up and leave with $0. When I sell my house after 10 years I get more back than what I put into it (and all of the profits are *tax free*), and during all of those 10 years I get to claim my property taxes as a deduction. Sure I had to spend money on the house over the years but it made it better for me while I was living there, and I knew that it was money that was going to help the house keep the value. At the end of the day it has been a net gain.",jnux,e87u1d3,SandersForPresident
"I don't think you know what a investment is... I mean, simply buying a home to live in is an investment.... Which is what I'm referring to. The key is to buy a home that will go up in value, then sell that and buy another place. Rinse and repeat until you're fifty. Easiest way to become wealthy.",Zincoshine_2018,e87z4qg,SandersForPresident
"I'll give him the first point.  

But a closed-loop geothermal system has no 'sulfur smell' and IS just as clean as Sanders stated.  

And pretty much no one, when talking about what a country 'runs on' is talking about the *cars*. Just like when people say large portions of this country 'run on coal', they're not talking about coal-powered cars. If 100% of the energy provided to Icelandic homes is from renewable sources, then Iceland runs on 100% renewable power.

And no, the US isn't a geothermal 'leader'. We may have more people using it by numbers...but we're a big country. Percentage-wise, we're the toddler running behind his marathon-runner dad.

In short...yet another hit piece disguised as 'neutral'.",wdjm,e88ti7d,SandersForPresident
"It would be good to note the individual who wrote this, [Robert Rapier](https://twitter.com/RRapier) is a long time contributor to oilprice.com. This ""FACT CHECKING"" article was copied and pasted directly from:  https://oilprice.com/Alternative-Energy/Renewable-Energy/Fact-Checking-Bernie-Sanders-On-Renewable-Energy.html

Also interesting to see on his twitter he linked the Forbes article rather than the Oilprice.com for some strange reason /s
",Manic006,e8huz3h,SandersForPresident
Thank you for doing the hard work,Chip_Regal,e88trcx,SandersForPresident
"I have to agree. This isn't really fact checking, it's more just restating what Bernie said in a negative way and dragging up numbers that aren't really relevant",squaminator,e88x7vi,SandersForPresident
Bernie's campaign account is active again on his [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCH1dpzjCEiGAt8CXkryhkZg/videos)!,Chartis,e87c2ut,SandersForPresident
"Dude's a damn rockstar.

Getting caught up in all the bullshit media coverage I sometimes worry about 2020.

Then I see the actual crowds he draws.

He's gonna have way more volunteers and way more small dollar donations than anyone AND be covered by the media this time. Dude's gonna win.",The_Popular_Populist,e87l3l3,SandersForPresident
"This sub barely mentions her? She's not even relevant anymore. You got down voted cause your post is lame.

Lets go BLUEWAVE 2018! AND BERNIE 2020!!!",TomBurcher,e89uswu,SandersForPresident
Nobody was even thinking about Hillary until you brought her up,beer_30,e89zl1h,SandersForPresident
">if I ran... I would run within the Democratic Party process...   

-Bernie, [Nov 8^th '17](https://youtu.be/k4zFqkJ0FhM?t=292)  


>I'm working on [reforming the Democratic Party](https://my.democrats.org/page/-/Unity%20Reform%20Commission%20Report%2012.21.17.pdf) because historically it has not welcomed young people into its ranks, and I want to change that. 

-Bernie, [Oct 3^rd '18](https://youtu.be/QAYVdDnZYPA?t=3399)


>I know that a lot of people like flirtations with third parties but the practical reality is the Democratic Party has to be the vehicle for change. And it's happening. People are not only running for office, but for Democratic Party offices all across this country. I was just at a DNC meeting in Chicago... 30% were 'Bernie' elected people. Change is happening but we have go to accelerate it. That requires young people and people who have turned away from the political process to reengage, to DemEnter and take the party back so we can take the country back...   

>[How you put pressure on the DNC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEFzOPhtgCg&feature=youtu.be&t=1942) is to run in county committee elections. And you work and help whichever Presidential candidate you want to support because in that process there's a whole process for electing the DNC members from the various states, and you need to be involved...  

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 24^th '18](https://youtu.be/sEFzOPhtgCg?t=1130)  

>Our ascendant movement cannot truly assume national leadership without welcoming the support of those who are not always with us. It's not selling out. It's called winning.

-Jeff Weaver, [Sept 28^th '18](https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2179185869068661&id=100009318073233)

>Consider registering to vote in the Democratic primary. These are the qualifying rounds. If you don't vote in the primaries of the two major parties that exist at this point, the sad reality is that in the general election in the United States (as usual) you will be left with two establishment choices with center to rightwing ideologies. *If* progressives are running in the primaries in your states we need to be there to support them and move the party in a progressive direction...  

-Dr. Jane Sanders, [June 1^st '18](https://youtu.be/5vAewHKGxy8?t=3356)  

>We've got to rebuild the DNC now. That is going to mean letting the progressive wing be the dominant ideology of the party. And when it has in the past it has made that party be the dominant party in American politics... The mosaic is more beautiful than the melting pot. Politically it works better.  

-Jeff Weaver, [Oct 10^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZdVRnodUI8&feature=youtu.be&t=3069)  

[TL;DR](https://i.imgur.com/Z5kZBom.jpg)  ",Chartis,e89r3dy,SandersForPresident
"It's a fair question. My regard for Hillary will never be high (relative to those who are center/left of center, at least). But I agree that harping on HRC vs. BS in 2016 too often is counterproductive, so I haven't bitched about it much over the last year and a half. Last thing I would want to do is be an overly aggressive douchebag who turns someone away from the populist left with my assholery.",OmarIsaiahBetts,e89y849,SandersForPresident
"Almost everyone here voted for her in the general if they were in a competitive state.  If you're continuing to believe right wing and Russian propaganda about how ""divided"" the party is, that's on you, but it doesn't reflect the people I know, online or in real life, who are working hard to elect Democrats this cycle from all parts of the party.

I also did the search you recommended, there's literally one post involving her in the last month- some poll numbers showing Bernie's favorability ratings higher than hers.",Terrible_Inspection,e8a6091,SandersForPresident
"A fair point, rudely made.

I would recommend you not accuse others of immaturity, simply for disagreeing with your post, or call people dumbasses.  To quote from your own post :  Its not productive nor necessary. 

But maybe convincing us was not your goal?",BeTheBern,e8a6prz,SandersForPresident
She keeps herself in the news so it's kind of hard not to talk about her and the failure of 2016 which gave us Trump. So to answer your question: no. ,rws723,e89r68b,SandersForPresident
" Please use the search function reddit has to look up ""$hillary"" or just ""hillary"" within this subreddit.   


&#x200B;",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a4gqt,SandersForPresident
"Please use the search function reddit has to look up ""$hillary"" or just ""hillary"" within this subreddit.",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a4fys,SandersForPresident
Not even relevant to what I said but thank you for your unenlightening comment.,ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a49lz,SandersForPresident
"Yes, I'm not a Hillary fan either...",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a4i33,SandersForPresident
Would it even be possible to actually convince most people who responded negatively to me ? ,ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a96n5,SandersForPresident
Or we could not be dumbasses and repeat the same lines Trump and the GOP say. ,ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a4hrm,SandersForPresident
"OK, I'll bite. Once yesterday, once 2 days ago, then the next mention 15 days ago, then 22 days ago. Not exactly an obsession like you claim. Are you trying to sow discord for some reason? Just askin",beer_30,e8a56i8,SandersForPresident
"This was *meant to address this aspect of your concerns:

>continuing to attack the Democratic Party and its members is to support the fascist Trump-Pence regime.

",Chartis,e8a7jp7,SandersForPresident
"I did not call it an obsession   


However, my point isn't that it isn't just this sub. I have heard fellow Bernie supporters attack her maliciously. ",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a94jq,SandersForPresident
But this does not do that. You keep posting this exact same post everywhere. ,ChiliadJohnsonese,e8a92al,SandersForPresident
"Not exactly the same, but to the point these sources address the topic of attacking the party and Democrats:  

Encouraging young people and others ""to reengage, to DemEnter... to be involved"", to ""welcoming the support"", ""registering to vote in the  Democratic primary"", and ""rebuild the DNC"".",Chartis,e8a9wtv,SandersForPresident
"How? I don't disagree with anything you have posted, however   


I said that attacking Hillary Clinton with the same lines that Donald Trump does legitimizes his statements, $hillary might as well be ""Crooked Hillary"" ",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8bu4z8,SandersForPresident
"You also said:

>continuing to attack the Democratic Party and its members is to support the fascist Trump-Pence regime.  

Which is the aspect I was addressing, specifically by highlighting the activities listed above.

",Chartis,e8bu9e9,SandersForPresident
"Okay, fair enough that makes much more sense.  


Reform is different than attack though. Attack plays right into the Trump-Pence regime. Reform is where we focus on how we can make things better, and right now given Russian Propaganda and the GOP harsh criticism isn't exactly going to help us.   


Do I like Hillary Clintons politics? No. Right now, the Democratic party is our conservative party while the GOP is hardcore reactionaries. They're practically the resurrection of the ""Native American Party"" that existed in the follow-up to the civil war (also known as the 'No Nothings'). Its red-alert emergency mode.  


However, regardless of what happens in 2020, even if we do all believe Bernie is the best option (personally, I'd prefer a younger version of him with more foreign policy experience but that just doesn't exist). We need to support the Democratic Parties candidate; at the very least then we will not have a neo-fascist in charge. ",ChiliadJohnsonese,e8c8k8t,SandersForPresident
"I agree that reform is different than attack, I'm for reform and not for DemExiting. I agree with your characterization of the GOP too.   

And I concur that we must both produce attractive candidates & foster a cultural responsibility to vote no matter what if our strength is to be enough to overcome the challenges that hinder remedy to our pain.  


I hesitate to bring up my dissent on one point though as it likely may not be taken in the spirit intended. I don't bring up the Russian narrative too often because it's overplayed in the mainstream media. But at the same time I think it's important to voice Bernie's understanding of the situation to calibrate somewhere between that and characterizing it all as propaganda.  

---    

In the he-said she-said between the Netherlands and Russia, my goodwill favors the Dutch and we await the outcome of the independent investigation that may find this and other evidence constitutes further proof:  

>In April 2016, Fancy Bear accessed the Washington servers of the Democrats; Cozy Bear had done so as early as the summer of 2015. Once more, the group was caught red-handed by the Dutch... The information shared by The Netherlands about the hacks at the DNC ended up on the desk of Robert Mueller, the Special Prosecutor leading the FBI investigation into possible Russian interference in the American elections. As early as December, the New York Times reported that information from, among others, Australia, the United Kingdom and The Netherlands had propelled the FBI investigation.

-[NOS](https://nos.nl/nieuwsuur/artikel/2213767-dutch-intelligence-first-to-alert-u-s-about-russian-hack-of-democratic-party.html)

>Dutch spies determined that Cozy Bear was operated by Russia’s Foreign Intelligence Service... witnessed the Russians breaking into servers owned by the Democratic National Committee  

-[de Volkskrant](https://www.volkskrant.nl/wetenschap/dutch-agencies-provide-crucial-intel-about-russia-s-interference-in-us-elections%7Eb4f8111b/)  

>The indictments announced today by the Justice Department confirm once again that Russia interfered in our elections to benefit Donald Trump. The fact that these indictments name 12 members of Russia’s military intelligence service strongly suggests that the interference was directed from the highest levels of the Russian government. It’s imperative that Special Counsel Mueller be allowed to continue his investigation free of pressure.  

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/recent-business/sanders-statement-on-russia-probe-indictments)

It would be beneficial to: 

>* Move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same  

>* Demand that the sanctions against Russia be fully implemented by the president  

>* Not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller

-[Bernie](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-introduces-resolution-to-protect-american-democracy-from-russian-meddling)  

>Russia actively worked to influence our 2016 presidential election and continues to try and destabilize democracies around the world, including ours. 

-[Sanders Statement on Iran Sanctions Resolution](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-sanctions-resolution)    

>It is unacceptable for Russia to interfere in our elections here in the United States... There must be consequences for such actions.  

-[Sanders Statement on Iran and Russia Sanctions](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sanders-statement-on-iran-and-russia-sanctions)

>It is a real political attack by Russia against the United States.   

-Bernie, [March 30^th '17](http://transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/1703/30/wolf.01.html)  

> the evidence is now overwhelming that Russia interfered in the last election, and in doing that is undermining American democracy.  

-Bernie, [Oct 30th '17](https://www.pscp.tv/NYCMayor/1LyGBRVrEnkGN?t=1494)

>At the end of the campaign... they played a really disgusting role because they don't believe in anything. All they want to do is sow division in this country, bring people against each other.   

-Bernie Sanders, [Feb 21^st '18](https://cpa.ds.npr.org/vpr/audio/2018/02/vermont-edition-Bernie-Sanders-20180221.mp3)  

>2016 election right here in the United States, where we now know that the Russian government was engaged in a massive effort to undermine one of our greatest strengths: the integrity of our elections, and our faith in our own democracy.  

-Bernie, [Sept 21^st '17](https://www.thenation.com/article/bernie-sanders-just-gave-one-of-the-finest-speeches-of-his-career)  

>It's a big deal. Bob Mueller was given the assignment of determining whether or not the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to undermine American democracy. And today is a major step forward with the indictment of Manafort.  

>I worry very much about the attacks we're seeing every day in a variety of ways, not only from the Russians.  

>Of all the issues and problems facing this country: Making sure we fight to protect and revitalize American democracy and take on all of those people who undermine what men and women fought and died to defend, that is our major task.  

-Bernie, [All Hallows' Eve '17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=13&v=Omiw5pRojto)
",Chartis,e8c94qz,SandersForPresident
"Here in LV, NV we have R Dean Heller vs D Jacky Rosen for the Senate.  Jacky has never taken any opportunity to promote 'Medicare for All'. ",fhdhfjjkohesxbk,e87c7vl,SandersForPresident
"Texas 2018 Election 

[Early Voting Starts](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do): November 6, 2018 

[Check Your Voter Registration Status](https://teamrv-mvp.sos.texas.gov/MVP/mvp.do)

",election_info_bot,e889l9a,SandersForPresident
Holy shit those other panelists besides Kyle are terrible,BopTheDrass,e88sk9p,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](http://registertovote.ca.gov/): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/vote-mail/#apply): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e88dand,SandersForPresident
">At a time when the rich are getting richer, poverty is increasing, and the middle class has been in a 40-year decline, we need a President who is working to improve the lives of all Americans—not one who denies the crisis of poverty we face and only works to help the top 1%.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157394488192908)",Chartis,e871puh,SandersForPresident
For selected highlights transcribed from this tour please see: https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9pzx7u/bernie_sanders_rallies_sioux_city_with_jd_scholten/e85jmhv,Chartis,e871gig,SandersForPresident
Doesn't the US murder in cold blood? ,BlankSimon,e86r2xo,SandersForPresident
"Good people do not attack the helpless.  

Brave people do not fear bullies.

We all know this stuff -- even the conservatives.  The trick is in applying it correctly to the world around us.",Demonweed,e844330,SandersForPresident
This is why he’s the man to challenge Trump in 2020. Straight talk.,brianmgarvey,e84au07,SandersForPresident
Jesus Christ if he runs in 2020 the debates are gonna be so savage. I hope he completely shreds Trump,Slayers_Stif,e84804p,SandersForPresident
">I know you'll all be *shocked* to learn, he lied. I know, hard to believe that he lied. [/s] He:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid  
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to the Social Security Disability fund  
>* is busy giving tax breaks to the wealthiest people in this country and the largest corporation while this cowardly President is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* [bows down to Putin] 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have after [he promised to provide health care to everybody](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6inQmf96SYQ)    
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner  

>For hundreds of year what we have seen are brave & courageous people standing up and saying NO! We are going to:

>* oppose slavery  
>* discrimination  
>* not allow women to be seen as 2^nd class citizens  
>* not be prejudice against people in the gay community   
>* not going to be religious bigots  

>For years & years we have been winning that struggle for democracy, becoming a less discriminatory society... we are going forwards!  

>In this great country of ours, in the United States of America, we are not going to:  

>* have more income & wealth inequality than any other country
>* tolerate discrimination  
>* not guarantee health care to all people  

>This is a great nation! We are proud of this nation! 

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOB-6n63N6Y&feature=youtu.be&t=1140)  ",Chartis,e847x2e,SandersForPresident
They can kill people without actually showing any type of trail that they killed them. Anything like this is orchestrated. ,PointlessCarnal2018,e85ilvz,SandersForPresident
Bernie was the president we needed. He actually cared about the well being of America and Americans. ,drevl,e85zsxr,SandersForPresident
"Trump is a weak man's idea of a strong man,

A dumb man's idea of a smart man,

A poor man's idea of a rich man.",DeathcampEnthusiast,e84gn7f,SandersForPresident
"Good post.  I posted this a day ago, but it somehow got overlooked so I’m glad your repost got the attention it deserves.  I’ll delete my post so this isn’t a repost.",Greg06897,e85by9t,SandersForPresident
"\#toughguydonald cutting healthcare for the sick and old, but giving money to the rich and strong. ",nostalgichero,e84nu6z,SandersForPresident
there you go bernie. talk tough to him!,subredditwins,e846nbt,SandersForPresident
Yikes ,,e84qlxw,SandersForPresident
I love. ,mrizzerdly,e84pogs,SandersForPresident
"That's a poor observation. Trump's view of Putin, the Saudi's and other dictators is that he agrees with their actions. He wishes he could murder reporters that publish negative stories about him. He is envious of Duterte joining death squads murdering his people. He would like to lock people up in camps like Kim Jong Un. To Trump, these actions make these leaders strong.

Trump would like nothing more than to be unencumbered by laws and act like these dictators.",BernieRuble,e84p2lp,SandersForPresident
BERN HIS ASS,happysisyphos,e848vm1,SandersForPresident
Oh shit lol,cottagecheese24,e856n58,SandersForPresident
Owned ,saul2015,e85b498,SandersForPresident
"I'm all for bringing this to light, but I wish we weren't so one sided and called out everyone... Obama deported more illegals than any president in US history... no one talks about it. We can't be partial on these issues for the sake of saving face.",abfanhunter,e84d2pj,SandersForPresident
"Look it was just an accident guys and what's the logical thing to do for a group of tourists who flew in on a private jet and left hours later on the same jet?  To cut the person into little pieces with this bone saw that everybody would logically pack in their backpack when they are seeing the sights in Turkey.   We need to focus on calling abortion murder, not the 110 billion in weapons we sell to a country which has killed thousands of innocent people in Yemen.",demagogueffxiv,e84b7c3,SandersForPresident
"Here's some artistic expressions of Trump's cruel cowardliness:  

https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DpvPyHoWsAAsvXc.jpg  
https://i.imgur.com/14kNmt9.jpg  
https://images.theweek.com/sites/default/files/141_216975.jpg  
https://images.theweek.com/sites/default/files/7c73620a-b72a-4741-8944-7b3e04658c8b.jpg  
https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DpvvWI9WsAAaQ4D.jpg ",Chartis,e84gtby,SandersForPresident
"Of the many low points of Trump's presidency, watching him cower and snivel in front of Putin was pathetic. Then to cowardly back track when he isn't in the same room just shows how spineless he is. But if it is a female prime minister, he is as macho as can be. Pathetic.",turd_burglar7,e85az9o,SandersForPresident
"I really hope Bernie Sanders announces early 2019. I think he's waiting to see what happens with the mid-terms. IF it's a blue wave, I think he announces. ",wifesaysnoporn,e85upnh,SandersForPresident
"A journalist, and untold Yemeni civilians. With American help.",BopTheDrass,e85vsn4,SandersForPresident
"Honest question, has Trump said a single thing to or about Bernie Sanders since taking the presidency? I don’t think I’ve seen anything. My guess is he knows not to cross that line.... which is truly saying something.",BellyUptotheClouds,e84otbx,SandersForPresident
Bernie spitting straight #facts 🔥,surfingjesus,e84cfw0,SandersForPresident
Bernie tellin it like it is.,arb337,e846zep,SandersForPresident
"I would sell body parts to have the opportunity for Bernie to call Trump to his face a BABY who ain't so tough. 


I don't even know what I would do if Trump cries. I think it would happen but my brain can't imagine being that satisfied for so long. ",blahblahwordvomit,e846xxk,SandersForPresident
"Nor unfortunately are many of our democratic representatives who love to fawn over ""rapidly progressing"" Saudi Arabia.",souprize,e84td4l,SandersForPresident
"Trump said something dumb once again about how we had to still work with The Saudis or risk losing jobs, unbelievable",Laughing_Bones,e85dl9z,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85in0g,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85qhfk,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85qrkb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85tsl8,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e86032f,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e8613mj,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e861k9j,SandersForPresident
"Because journalists who tell the truth deserve to die, in his mind and the minds of other pathological liars. ",SusieSuze,e84uk9u,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84cps1,SandersForPresident
I imagine trumpy doesn't do much thinking. He is an empty sock puppet whose strings are being pulled by everyone he meets that smiles at him.,freightshooker,e859ras,SandersForPresident
"Thank God that policy has been struck down. Now that they know they can safely bring their children and can only be detained for 20 days more caravans of diversity are on the way. These future democratic voters will help us make sure that someone like Drumpf will never be elected again! I just wish Mexico would step out of their way.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fLJ3p8yHdWk",fluffykitty94,e85ei98,SandersForPresident
Ripping children from their mothers arms,beatricejensen,e85vv3u,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84dr31,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84g2ku,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84lrgl,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84mnwl,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84n17q,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85a6r0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85aywb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85np2j,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85rhqk,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85sqf7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85sr58,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85uku9,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85v6ba,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85ya3z,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85ztid,SandersForPresident
"Well Bernie, you do need to do something about Kiah Morris you realize",aeyuth,e85pxb0,SandersForPresident
"Several US citizens killed in Benghazi - “what difference does it make”

One journalist killed in the most volatile region on the planet- “omfg why doesn’t Drumpf do something”",SpankMasster,e862rnr,SandersForPresident
"Well said.

Trump seems to be counting on his ""Brown Shirts,"" The Proud Boys, to keep him in power.

He is a very dangerous man and if anyone in his administration had an inkling of honor or a sense of duty to the Constitution of the United States of America they would have invoked the 25th Amendment over a year ago.",xxoites,e844uii,SandersForPresident
"The media is already ignoring him.

No, now the big name everyone wants to throw around is John Kerry. Because what is the DNC anymore except a recycling factory? Couldn't get the job done with the candidate who lost in the primary in 2008? Well... Let's go with the candidate who lost the general in 2004! Look at our party grow!

And I'm still seeing Hillary Clinton way too much. Stop trying to make Hillary Clinton a thing. The quicker your party kicks all these centrists to the curb, the quicker voters will see you actually stand for something.

This is why I'm scared Trump is going to win again in 2020. Bernie clearly scares the shit out of everyone. And the DNC will expose the nation to Trump for another 4 years before making the actual internal changes it needs to to survive. ",Spiralyst,e84gh21,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85sqcd,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85t6fo,SandersForPresident
"Trump will probably be too chicken shit to debate him, just like before.",Intanjible,e84b6a8,SandersForPresident
Sanders and Warren: the dream team of annihilating trump,virmeretrix,e84jas6,SandersForPresident
"Hey I was there for this! It was my first time seeing Bernie in person, not going to lie, I got giddy like a schoolgirl when he came on stage!

Liz Watson, running for congress for indianas 9th district is great too! Former labor attorney, born and raised in Bloomington, went to the same high school as me. She's a hometown hero and shares Bernies philosophy! ",eweidenbener,e848949,SandersForPresident
I'll agree with the first two but pretty sure he is like 97% of what the country would safely consider a rich man. ,BikeNY89,e84i3nu,SandersForPresident
Super nice of you,Vandersnatch182,e85pvtx,SandersForPresident
"[American political voting record](https://bothsidesarenotthesame.com/) and [republican criminal activity](https://m.dailykos.com/stories/2017/1/11/1619079/-Comparing-Presidential-Administrations-by-Arrests-and-Convictions-A-Warning-for-Trump-Appointees) and [several other examples](https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/9afsiv/just_as_president_trump_was_openly_pondering_the/e4vb54b/)

Feel free to repost",qquicksilver,e84k8ld,SandersForPresident
">no one talks about it. We can't be partial on these issues for the sake of saving face. 

Why would we need to talk about it when Obama didn't separate families and lock up children...and the GOP (as always) are the ones who blocked any meaningful changes to the law. ",mrizzerdly,e84ptw1,SandersForPresident
"And your debate team just lost. This both false equivalence and whataboutism. Worse yet, you are crying about someone that is retired and has no power to effect you anymore.",MIGsalund,e84ekxe,SandersForPresident
Is there room to value all life? I think our culture of death leads us to not valuing any life.,pilgrimboy,e84cuaz,SandersForPresident
">I have to give it Bernie. He’s in there fighting. He's in there fighting... Bernie's in there pitching. 

-Donald Trump, [Oct 11^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CI6dPvi2bY&feature=youtu.be&t=796)  ",Chartis,e84q4kf,SandersForPresident
"I know they are opposed on most issues, but to be fair, Trump has acknowledged, a few times from what I remember, that Bernie had the DNC nomination stolen from him. 

I think he repsects Sanders just a bit for going out and fighting unlike most of his Democratic constituents.",Hsnbrg501,e86tsyj,SandersForPresident
"[@ddale8]:https://twitter.com/ddale8/status/1053647215409938432@

 * In March, Trump said the Saudi military deals would produce 40,000 jobs.

 A week ago, he made it 450,000 jobs. Wednesday, 500,000 jobs. Yesterday afternoon, 600,000 jobs. 

 Yesterday evening: ""The million jobs.""  

---  

>[I’d rather keep the million jobs](https://twitter.com/WhiteHouse/status/1053437483642286081)",Chartis,e85eb4h,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85jbjh,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85t9qy,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85tagh,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gcjw,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gcvm,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e86o7td,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e86o8b5,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84cxgm,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84e38f,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84gqjm,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84luxt,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gd8y,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84nrht,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85al58,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85bbnj,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gdkr,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gds9,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87ge0r,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",Venteran,e85t67n,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87ge9a,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87gej3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e87geqt,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e86o8mp,SandersForPresident
"""Trump seems to be counting on his 'brown shirts', the Proud Boys to keep him in power"".

No reasonable person thinks that. There is zero evidence to support that statement. It would be an incredibly ineffective strategy if actually employed.


 If he's colluding with Russia to rig elections, why would he need a group of alleged street thugs to maintain power? 

How would those alleged street thugs be effectively keeping him in power? ",ThroughTheShadows,e84k5dn,SandersForPresident
Bernie should announce if he’s going to run sooner rather than later. Part of the reason he lost to Clinton was he starting gaining all of his momentum too late and by that time he had too much ground to make up. Time to get the people fired up now.,tplee,e85mmnd,SandersForPresident
You're kidding yourself if you think Clinton won't run again.   She's going through all the motions right now.  Expect the announcement within a month or so after the midterms.,Ahmon,e84py94,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85tb0d,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85t879,SandersForPresident
There will still be debates. We just might only be listening to Bernie monologues in them.,MIGsalund,e84e5lx,SandersForPresident
If Bernie is the Dem nominee he'll pretty much have too. Who knows with Trump though ,Slayers_Stif,e84iund,SandersForPresident
"Am i right in that Trump either ignores Bernie, or is not brave enough to respond on twitter? I really try to stay away from trump and twitter, for my sanity. 

This is really calling him out directly.",JohnRav,e85454s,SandersForPresident
"Sanders, Warren, Turner, Gabbard, Jayapal, and (most importantly) hundreds of millions of others are the dream team of revitalizing democracy & having Bernie preside from the Oval Office. ",Chartis,e84js4s,SandersForPresident
I prefer Sanders and Gabbard,dnietz,e84p4nn,SandersForPresident
Warren is embarrassing herself. If she supports the party she will stay away,Book_it_again,e84psa9,SandersForPresident
">97% of the country considers a rich man

That’s what they said, what a poor man’s idea of a rich man",CordageMonger,e85nitg,SandersForPresident
Hes rich but those no way he's wealthy. Im sure he has cash flow but there's no way he's not in debt overall,Slayers_Stif,e84j6e5,SandersForPresident
He deported more illegals than any other president? did you miss that statement?,abfanhunter,e84sh1d,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84hche,SandersForPresident
Should have specified “anything negative” but that’s interesting. Sort of confirms my thoughts.,BellyUptotheClouds,e84qhk2,SandersForPresident
"I don't believe he's capable of respecting others, I would suggest he's shown us that much at least. It seems his mindset exists in the realm of ""What is best (for me) in this situation?"" and ""The (my) ends always justify the means."" A more likely reaction is that he doesn't want to go on the attack on Bernie because he doesn't know if he'll be running against him in 2020... but then we realize he has no problem tanking his/gop's own strategies w/ego posts or interview rants...so it comes off like he's just more afraid of that route than others. If so, I want to pin point exactly why.

This is as far as I am on the subject, still reviewing info as I find it. ",BellyUptotheClouds,e876u2s,SandersForPresident
"OP is exaggerating, but there are parallels to trump supporters and brownshirts. Charlottesville, Trump calling for violence at his rallies, the Vermont congresswoman who got stalked out of office. Trump is empowered by his supporters' political violence. ",DoctorWorm_,e84kkbw,SandersForPresident
"Trump himself called for  violence at his own rallies, don't give me that. He's stoking the flames and *loves* these sort of people. The user doesn't even exaggerate, you misunderstand. He is dependent on these radical extremists to keep the base energized.

I swear Trump would have to put a Hitler mustache on and *actually* create gas chambers for anyone to start seeing parallels. Yet these same people lack the history to recognize the origins of Nazi power. Of course they're not the brown coats, but right-wing extremism and violence is on the rise. In any red state, your car is keyed or sticker ripped off if it's blue. Your signs are stolen, and you may just get run over by a Trump supporter at a protest. It's true, FBI noted right wing extremists the greatest domestic threat. And that number is only rising under Trump. These means of intimidation, perhaps not as orchestrated directly certainly aren't being thoroughly denounced by Trump, either. ",lennybird,e84oivq,SandersForPresident
">How would those alleged street thugs be effectively keeping him in power? 

Whips, chains, knives, swords, baseball bats, iron pipes, brass knuckles, glass bottles, hammers, rocks and bricks. 

That's entirely off the top of my head, and you'll note none of those weapons are firearms. ",some_random_kaluna,e85nego,SandersForPresident
"No one has ever accused Trump of reason.

Treason, absolutely, but not reason.",Apoplectic1,e853dpp,SandersForPresident
"Because there is a two term limit for people who win the White House.

Because he is calling on his supporters to use violence.

Because he studies Mussolini's actions and Adolf Hitler's speeches. 

Because he is The Donald.",xxoites,e853mwe,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85ewa2,SandersForPresident
"I agree. Bernie shouldn’t wait until some grifter like Harris or Booker announces first and gets to shape the primary narrative as they want. Plus, if that Amazon worker issue is anything to go by, his candidacy is going to be a positive force for good no mater its outcome. There’s really no downside I can see to announcing early.",CordageMonger,e85n5dy,SandersForPresident
He’s already laid the groundwork on several occasions. I think he does it right after November. ,mclairy,e8630rg,SandersForPresident
He is waiting until after the midterms. I think all the candidates are just to not suck any oxygen out of the room. ,Spiralyst,e86o6yb,SandersForPresident
"Lmao there’s no way in hell Hillary runs again. Her political career as we knew it is dead now, you don’t just lose to Donald Trump in the general and then jump right back in. It’s over for her",GroktheDestroyer,e84uxf7,SandersForPresident
I would literally vote trump just to spite them all if they're that stupid,DrDougExeter,e85qltm,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e84sdqp,SandersForPresident
So a bit like when Clint Eastwood pretended to debate an empty chair except this time the chair will be voluntarily empty.,kurisu7885,e84j3lk,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e858r8x,SandersForPresident
Sanders Harris,krillwave,e8555ci,SandersForPresident
"I can’t see Warren running after that idiotic Native blood fiasco. That said I also expect her to run against all wisdom and having multiple devastating gaffes like it before dropping out. It’s not that I don’t think her policies would be decent, though I don’t really trust her fully, but she has revealed herself as just not politically savvy enough to win a primary or a general. ",CordageMonger,e85nfai,SandersForPresident
The size of his wallet seems to largely reflect who he has recently attempted to fuck over the most.,Technologic92,e858chm,SandersForPresident
I think that is different from intentionally separating families at the border. Nuance! ,mrizzerdly,e84sq95,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84i5fz,SandersForPresident
"[Four days ago](https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1051984061860904960)

[Three weeks ago](https://youtu.be/BaxJj7sho0M?t=47)",thisoneisntottaken,e8538q7,SandersForPresident
I witnessed an example of this recently. I had a coworker talking about how he needs to get his open carry license. His reason being that it’s getting crazy out in the world. But then he proceeds to say that he’s going to be able to drive down the road and shoot him some liberals with his white hood. He laughed it off as a joke but just seeing his mindset. He thinks the world is getting crazy and these “liberals” are bad for us but his mindset makes him the crazy one in my opinion. ,padquestion,e85ummh,SandersForPresident
"https://edition.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/08/28/donald-trump-warns-of-violence-midterms-sot-tsr-vpx.cnn

Is that what you referring to? He refers to violence from 'the left' by groups like Antifa. He's clearly saying, as quoted by CNN, that if the Republicans lost the midterms, their work would be quickly overturned in the Senate and their would be violence from other leftwing interest groups.

Have a watch and quote me the bit where he encourages right wing violence. 

The origins of Nazi power also came out the German Workers Party and it's socialist ideals before moving to the totalitarian dictatorship. Don't be fooled into thinking it started as a right wing dictatorship, the German people backed the Nazis because they originally passed themselves off as anti capitalist, anti communist and pro socialist. Once they seized power outright.....well, we know the rest.

Forget the Nazi's and look at the Weather Underground movement in America. They basically killed the anti war, peace and love counter culture of the 60's by being violent. It pushed a lot of people away. This is how this will play out.with Antifa, Proud Boys etc, not strengthen these movements. Even Hitler disposed of the brown shirts once their purpose was served.

",ThroughTheShadows,e85rmh9,SandersForPresident
"Bike locks?

Hang on are you talking about the proud boys or Antifa?

Last video I saw was an Antifa guy trying to hit someone with a metal baton, then getting punched (no weapons) in the face and knocked out. 

Ok so let's say what you have said is true, how are they using those weapons to keep Trump in power?

To threaten Trump voters into not voting Trump?

To challenge and assualt anyone they politically disagree with?

To shutdown political speakers they oppose?

See where this is going......



",ThroughTheShadows,e85qhqj,SandersForPresident
Sources?,ThroughTheShadows,e85pstf,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #3. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85imd7,SandersForPresident
I honestly think he'll announce early 2019. I think he's waiting to see how the mid-terms shake out. ,wifesaysnoporn,e85uo5k,SandersForPresident
"That's the way it should work. But the reality is, Hillary and Bill Clinton saved the party for bankruptcy. They are basically the biggest donors now and they have the entire party by the nuts. That's a big reason why Clinton got past the primaries even though Bernie was far more popular. The DNC itself paved the way for her.

And the fact that she is still constantly going on any television show that will have her, even right now at this point in time, makes me afraid the OP up here is right. Much to everyone's chagrin. ",Spiralyst,e858t4q,SandersForPresident
"Remember Richard Nixon? Lost to Kennedy in '60 and won in '68. Politics isn't for quitters. Not saying that Hillary should win, *shudder*, but be careful with statements like ""it's over for her."" She's ideal for Neoliberal Democrats, and those assholes still hold the cards. ",surfnaked,e85msl7,SandersForPresident
"She has the money and the enough DC sycophants to run again. Her political career was over in 2008 too let’s be honest, but that didn’t stop her.",CordageMonger,e85mx6x,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #8. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e84wlq9,SandersForPresident
"Bernie doesn't need to talk to a chair when tens of thousands wait hours to hear him speak, rain or wind or snow be damned, all across the nation. Red state or blue. Makes no difference. His is a populist message of love and collaboration that will win out against the hate and fear rhetoric that damns almost every contemporary politician.",MIGsalund,e84tgrf,SandersForPresident
"Listening to everything she has said over the past few years, she is the farthest left person in office. She's even farther left than Bernie in many cases. Her anti-war stances are strong.

Her ""alignment"" with nationalists in India is so fake news. People that hate her because she went against Hillary are the ones that keep repeating that.

Regarding against gay marriage, she is young. She learned. She has an explanation of why she learned and changed, unlike Hillary that says something different every 5 minutes. I know many awesome people that grew up in traditional families and had to change on their own as adults. She comes off as someone like that.

Everything she has said and done over the past few years has been courageous. She is way farther left than Warren. Warren showed cowardice in 2016 by going against Bernie in favor of Hillary. Warren has repeatedly made statements that sound defensive and fearful of being accused of being a socialist.

The intensity of attacks by Gabbard are on par with the anti-Bernie pro-Hillary attacks. They are attempts at character assassination with extremely little evidence, bordering on conspiracy level. I bet if we track down her harshest detractors, they were pro-Hillary.",dnietz,e85eb0z,SandersForPresident
"As much as I would tolerate Warren, I am vehemently against Harris. Harris has repeatedly voted against and spoken against universal healthcare and Medicare-For-All. 

She has defended the use of super PACs and corporate support. She is no where near a progressive. She is a clone of Hillary.

Look at her votes and you will see her pro bank and pro drug company support.",dnietz,e85ei6v,SandersForPresident
I'm willing to wager that more families were separated under Obama then with Trump.. does it matter how they were separated.. Separated is all the same no matter which way you do it. It's wrong either way right?,abfanhunter,e84wo5s,SandersForPresident
Didnt the Obama administration push forward separating families? It wasn't the Trump administration's idea.,DerpySquidInk,e85m0yi,SandersForPresident
Thanks for the links. ,BellyUptotheClouds,e876f8m,SandersForPresident
"Or how about how they often talk about running over protestors? One of them actually did. It’s not a laughing matter or a hyperbole. Trump supporters are brown shirts. They can’t handle logic or critical thinking, so they use anger as a defense mechanism for their ignorance and lack of basic intellect. ",Wildflowerneu,e86jj4x,SandersForPresident
"I'm referring to a [string of incidents](https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2017/jul/05/sarah-huckabee-sanders/has-donald-trump-never-promoted-or-encouraged-viol/)—but his appeal to exaggerated fear in your link only adds to the scapegoating and projection used in Nazi Germany just the same.

There was nothing Socialist about the National Socialist Party in the same way there was nothing Democratic about the Democratic People's Republic of North Korea. Waning from the fallout, treaties, and reparations from WWI, Germany was in economic decline. Hitler rose to powers under a right-wing populist movement fueled by torches, scapegoating immigrants, Jews, communists, and anyone else. Bolstering this sense of blind nationalism, they'd hold loud boisterous rallies—not forged out of love and unity, but of fear, anger, and hatred. Less like the Sanders rallies and more like the Charlottesville tiki torch parades by White Supremacists. Stringing along the more moderate parts of society, many opted to look the other way since Hitler was energizing the economy by investing in military. So with the guilt washed away and thoroughly pinned on someone else and the economy rising, Germans sacrificed liberty for obedience and permitted an increasing concentration of power, all the while the absurd increasingly became normalized. To such a point that protesting would get you killed. 

No, we aren't at the late-stage, but there are parallels to the early techniques of fear, hate, and scapegoating forged out of the Right. It doesn't help, either, that holocaust survivors, themselves, are speaking out. Take it from Holocaust survivors and the Anne Frank Centre for starters:

https://www.cnn.com/2017/08/19/opinions/holocaust-survivor-trump-charlottesville-sonia-k-opinion/index.html

>But the last few months have felt like 1938 all over again, the year when Kristallnacht -- a night when riotous violence against Jews swept through Nazi Germany — announced the brutal persecution to come. I'm scared -- not for myself, but for my children, my grandchildren, and all children.

http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/382270-holocaust-survivor-america-under-trump-feels-like-1929-berlin

>Jacobs, a New York architect who said he knows Trump personally, referred to the president as an “enabler” of far-right rhetoric.

>“Things that couldn’t be said five years ago, four years ago, three years ago — couldn’t be said in public — are now normal discourse,” he said. “It’s totally unacceptable.”

https://www.phillymag.com/news/2016/11/17/holocaust-survivors-hitler-trump/

>“People aren’t going to want to hear it, but as [Trump] talked more and more, he sounded more and more like Hitler,” he said. “There’s that grandiosity, that self-importance, that feeling that he knows everything, that he knows more than the generals.”

(another survivor from the same article:) 

>“It has uncomfortable reminiscences,” he said. “The structure of the situation here might not be the same as it was in Germany then, but there are too many similarities. But I’m not going to Canada — yet.”

[Read Anne Frank Center comments here](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/anne-frank-centre-donald-trump-america-president-hitler-nazi-germany-alarming-parallels-warning-a7884731.html)

Come on, [don't be a sucker.](https://youtu.be/23X14HS4gLk) if you're waiting for something as blatantly obvious as gas chambers to pop up, then it will be too fucking late. Draw the line now. Read a book on the matter if you lack the knowledge. I can recommend several others if needed. 

Also, don't equate Antifa with Right-Wing extremists. 76% of all deaths spurred by extremist groups were a result of Right-Wing extremists. Antifa has not killed a single person. 2% in total from left-wing groups. 
",lennybird,e86jhhz,SandersForPresident
"He's more of a do-everything-possible-to-make-it-happen kinda fella:  

- [Grassroots Phonebank](https://www.grassrootspb.com)
- [Our Revolution Phonebank](https://go.ourrevolution.com/page/content/phonebank)
- [Justice Democrats Phonebank](https://justicedialer.com)  
- [Our Revolution Textbank](https://text.forbernie.com)
",Chartis,e85v8d6,SandersForPresident
Is she on TV these days? I don’t watch a bunch but I’m kinda not aware of any appearances. Like any at all. ,designOraptor,e85kmca,SandersForPresident
"They do, certainly. But if the midterms go the way I think they will, Hillary Clinton won't want to run again. She'll be too old. 

Age is going to be a factor. And Bernie isn't the only socialist anymore. He's helped kickstart the revolution, and people will always love him for it. I do. ",some_random_kaluna,e85nmal,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85hitt,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85fbni,SandersForPresident
Not to mention Trump specifically signed the Zero Tolerance EO because Congress wouldn’t give him shiny wall,pyrowolf8,e84ygld,SandersForPresident
"Source
",mrizzerdly,e85n4m6,SandersForPresident
"Ok so all of what you have linked is opinion. Zero evidence there.

Your take on the Nazis never espousing Socialist ideals before becoming (and after) a totalitarian dictaorship flies in the face of recorded history.

I'd be happy to continue this discussion if you can provide anything other than opinion.",ThroughTheShadows,e87djwo,SandersForPresident
"Here’s a good recent story on her creep back into the public light: 

https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2018/10/19/hillary-clinton-democrats-go-away-2018-2020-221608",mclairy,e863kdn,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85tbml,SandersForPresident
"I was going to write my response without actually thoroughly reading the article you linked, because I have had this debate so many times already. But as my response grew longer and longer, I decided to do the proper thing and actually read the entire Jacobin op-ed and also the linked references inside the Jacobin piece. I can tell you now that BRANKO MARCETIC is a lying sack of garbage and this op-ed is a trash hit piece full of bias and lies. I wrote my response to you initially as a plain and unemotional debate. Now I am actually a little angry at the repeated lies and propaganda.


The hit piece trash op-ed says that in 1998 Gabbard supposedly made an emotional defense of her father’s religious conservative stances as a state representative. She would have been 17. She didn’t run for office until she was 22. Beyond that, whether she was 17 or 22, anyone that dismisses someone politically because of a defense of their father is pathetic. It was a low and dishonest blow.

Not everyone that is progressive and has a religious conservative family hates their parents. I know it is the cool popular thing among many young American progressives to just crap all old people including their own parents. 


Then the article cites an interview with Ozy. First of all, Ozy is a trash neo-liberal corporatist propaganda rag. But worse, if you actually watch the video and read the interview with Ozy, she absolutely does not say what the lying author says. In the interview, she is questioned about her previous statements, as someone that has clearly made pro-gay rights statements. She responds by dismissing the statements as being something she said a long time ago when she was younger. No kidding. The interview with Ozy was in 2015, at the age of 34. She has made clear statements in favor of gay civil rights as far back as 2003 (which even the dishonest Marcetic admits). She would have been 22 at the most. 

I guess progressives are now supposedly only valid if they were progressive from birth? No one is allowed to grow up in a conservative family and then grow up and change? This argument feels as ugly as those liberals that crapped on Bernie Sanders for being old.



Then the Marcetic hit piece garbage op-ed states that the Hawaii Democratic Party LGBT caucus stopped supporting her after previously supporting her. Go ahead and read the referenced article past the first paragraph. And make sure you note that this is just a small group. It isn’t even the entire Dem party LGBT caucus, it is only the Hawaii sub-group, and only after they already essentially endorsed her opponent.


Gabbard has made clear statements in favor of gay rights as far as 2003. She was endorsed by Emily’s list in 2012. She even had caucus group’s support previously. This caucus group withdrew their support after their interview with her opponent. Their entire reasoning was that her responses to their questions were “short”. Read the quote from LGBT Caucus Chairperson Michael Golojuch, Jr. It simply says : “Her [questionnaire] responses were short,” and then he bases his additional reasoning as her interview with Ozy mentioned above.


What the F? They clearly were endorsing Gabbard’s opponent Chan Hodges. Who knows how local politics turns out and what was being said behind closed doors. This chairperson wouldn’t even say that she said anything against gay rights. He just said that she didn’t say enough. Really? That’s it? And then quoted her response to Ozy where she dismissed her old statements supporting her father as old statements. 


This is all propaganda garbage. After reading all this trash and dishonest “journalism”, I have eliminated any remaining last doubt I may have had about Gabbard. There are apparently people who simply don’t like her and will go all out to trash her. They are also fueled by people in the Dem party that are bitter about her support of Bernie over Hillary. It would be a mistake to dismiss how angry and vindictive some people are about her support for Bernie.


The next several topics that she is criticized for are garbage too. 

As a person who was born in the Middle East, who has Muslims in my family, who has lost family and friends to violence in the Middle East, who is sensitive to racism against Middle Easterners, and who is has been a life long lefty socialist progressive dreaming of the day that the tyranny of capitalism ends on Earth, I say to any white person that tries to “teach” me that Gabbard is a bigot or is biased against Muslims to go F yourself. 


That’s what I would tell the lying sack of garbage hit piece op-ed author Marcetic. I lost family, friends, and my entire nation to the problems caused by religious extremism and the hegemonic actions of the American military supporting American corporations. I’m not going to argue with a New Zealander white person trying to teach me what I should think and feel about Gabbard, who actually spent time in the Middle East and had an epiphany and now chooses a life of public service. 


And yes, I’m fully aware of how many right wing bigots pretend to take atheist stances against Islam simply to further their agenda (Sam Harris and other racists). I’m extremely sensitive to anti-Middle Easterner racism. I have personally been subject to it my entire life. In some ways, I have been faced with it more acutely than others. I don't look Middle Eastern. I also have no accent when speaking English. While many other Middle Easterners are never allowed into places or excluded in other ways, I am typically not rejected on site. I am allowed in, and made part of ""Anglo"" American culture and made to feel welcome often. I then either have to tell people my name and have to witness the expressions of utter horror and shock on people's faces. Or I sit idly by and listen to people around me who have let their guards down finally say horrible bigoted things about Middle Easterners. 


Gabbard’s stance against wars of intervention and other military action are all that matter. These other silly arguments stating that some white person was offended on the behalf of Middle Easterners because Gabbard was quoted as saying something that the white dude in New Zealand mis understood is stupid. 


This article quotes her as primarily criticizing foreign intervention as a cost to the American people, and not strongly criticizing the human cost to the non-Americans. That is bull. I have literally listened to her passionately describe the horrors she has witnessed with civilian deaths that are un-measurable. She has described in detail how she came to respect the culture and heritage of the very people of the nations she was supposedly fighting against. Her description of witnessing injured children and their devastated fathers and mothers is heart-wrenching and could not have been anything but genuine. I didn't read this in an article quoting her. This is her own voice in interviews.


Jacobin magazine is such a weird organization. They have been around a long time and many articles in there are intellectually sound. But then they publish crap like this. They claim to be Jacobin in philosophy, but allow lies to be said against progressives. If they aren’t supportive of Gabbard, then who are they for? Tell me which person in American politics is better than Gabbard? Are they just against everyone? If they are purely an intellectual exercise, then why are they discussing the details of who endorsed who in local elections? 

This is intellectual dishonesty. I guess now I know why I have had Jacobin bookmarked for a decade but barely ever read them. That site is just full of crap and worthless junk. 



",dnietz,e85u17g,SandersForPresident
"So no neither the Obama nor the Trump administration made it a policy, however Trump did enforce it way more harsher than previous administration. He was trying to push his zero tolerance policy.

&#x200B;

[https://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/immigration-border-crisis/fact-check-did-obama-administration-separate-families-n884856](https://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/immigration-border-crisis/fact-check-did-obama-administration-separate-families-n884856)

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",DerpySquidInk,e85xcpm,SandersForPresident
">Ok so all of what you have linked is opinion. Zero evidence there.

I mean, Politifact objectively pointed out myriad examples. All you did is denounce based on *your own* opinion, by the way... So... How is that different? At least Politifact is attempting to analyze the claim objectively

>Your take on the Nazis never espousing Socialist ideals before becoming (and after) a totalitarian dictaorship flies in the face of recorded history.

That's your opinion. Zero evidence. I'd love to see actual substantive sources on this, but I'm willing to bet money you don't have any on-hand. So google away, will you?

>I'd be happy to continue this discussion if you can provide anything other than opinion.

I provided myriad individuals who had first-hand experienced and survived the holocaust and Nazi Germany. I also provided a reputable website that highlighted the instances of violence. Nice silly little deflections, though. Looks like I won this argument based on your desperation.







",lennybird,e87faof,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e85u4jp,SandersForPresident
"The Nazis early socialist ideals were born from Mussolini's syndicalism. It's only after entering into dictatorship do we see the shift from socialist idealology into a totalitarian one, just like Mussolini. Some believe that once powerful and rich themselves, the party officials evolved out of that idealology. That said the Nazi's themselves believed in their version of Socialism as late as 1944, they were still putting out pamphlets entitled 'Our Socialism'. Just ask yourself this question, if the National Socialists were anti communist and anti capitalist, what social and economic idealology were they putting forward?

You aren't arguing me, you're arguing recorded history.",ThroughTheShadows,e8as3qm,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guideline #1. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e85uev3,SandersForPresident
>Ok so all of what you have linked is opinion. Zero evidence there.,lennybird,e8avh2r,SandersForPresident
"I think you'll find that information readily available in any history or economics book.

Here's a quote from Goebbels to get you started.


 
""As socialists, we are opponents of the Jews, because we see in the Hebrews the incarnation of capitalism, of the misuse of the nation's goods.""

Joseph Goebbels",ThroughTheShadows,e8aw6ua,SandersForPresident
">I think you'll find that information readily available in any history or economics book.

Then it should be easy for you to cite.

>""As socialists, we are opponents of the Jews, because we see in the Hebrews the incarnation of capitalism, of the misuse of the nation's goods.""

Bernie Sanders is a socialist *and* he is Jewish. He doesn't hate Jews. Checkmate.
",lennybird,e8aynr0,SandersForPresident
"I think you changed the argument there mate, but to be honest, I'm used to it these days.





",ThroughTheShadows,e8b2fdb,SandersForPresident
"I'm just waiting for a source, is all, mate.",lennybird,e8b2njs,SandersForPresident
"https://www.forbes.com/sites/billflax/2011/09/01/obama-hitler-and-exploding-the-biggest-lie-in-history/

https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/hitler-and-the-socialist-dream-1186455.html


There are literally 100's of articles and books on the subject.

Very telling though that most of the articles pre 2016 say, absolutely, they were Socialists. Now, post 2016, most of the articles say, absolutely they couldn't of.

The biggest argument against is, they targeted Socialists, so couldn't be Socialists themselves. The reality is they targeted 'Democratic Socialists'..... for wanting democracy. 

Now let me put this in context. We all know the atrocities carried out against the Jews of Europe. The Nazis targeted them intially, and successfully turned the people against them, by pointing out their wealth and how that should be redistributed to the state to provide a better standard of living for the German people. Sound familiar.....targeting the rich 1% and resdistributing their wealth to the people via state run programs.",ThroughTheShadows,e8c3tbt,SandersForPresident
"Neither of those are ""history or economics"" books as you claimed. They don't even source their own material. So if we're going by anything, [here's Snopes' research on whether Nazis were Socialist (FALSE)](https://www.snopes.com/news/2017/09/05/were-nazis-socialists/):

>Above all, the Nazis were German white nationalists. What they stood for was the ascendancy of the “Aryan” race and the German nation, by any means necessary. Despite co-opting the name, some of the rhetoric, and even some of the precepts of socialism, Hitler and party did so with utter cynicism, and with vastly different goals. The claim that the Nazis actually were leftists or socialists in any generally accepted sense of those terms flies in the face of historical reality.

You, and the noted articles, are succumbing to a bait & switch. What Adolf and the Nazi party *claims* to be, and what they actually are are two very different things. White Nationalists != Socialism. The *only* aspect to their rule that even remotely paralleled Socialism is the roots in populism, but given that by definition Socialism is an economic model paired with equitable rule, we saw neither. More closely did we see tyranny under fascism—quite the opposite end of the spectrum. 

Sure, Hitler had to project that he was a socialist because socialism sells. Just as Russia claims it has democracy, and just as North Korea claims itself to be a ""Democratic Republic."" Tell me, do you really believe those things, too?

>The Nazis targeted them intially, and successfully turned the people against them, by pointing out their wealth and how that should be redistributed to the state to provide a better standard of living for the German people. Sound familiar.....targeting the rich 1% and resdistributing their wealth to the people via state run programs.

Except Nazis spread fear and hatred; the message of modern socialism in America is one of unity and equity. They seek not to lynch them, burn them, or anything else. Merely balance the inequality via non-violent, democratic means. Do you see the left beating the drums of war or going to the gun-shops *en-masse*? No. If your argument made any sense at all, it would be the the left making bomb threats against public figures like Obama and Hillary like we see today in the news, and increasing the violence (they're not); but instead, it's the Right. Follow the love and you'll see the love has long been on the Left in America.





",lennybird,e8da7b9,SandersForPresident
Snopes. Lol. I stopped reading right there.,ThroughTheShadows,e8j3d1q,SandersForPresident
lol denial. ,lennybird,e8j775w,SandersForPresident
Might wanna read up who funds a lot of those fact checking sites......then look at what / who else they fund. ,ThroughTheShadows,e8j7sbx,SandersForPresident
"Might want look into the cited material and sources they use, itself.

In the meantime, I'm waiting for those textbook citations you mentioned. ",lennybird,e8jmt8f,SandersForPresident
"Hey bloke, if you can't tell the difference and similarities between ethno based socialism and democratic socialism, you might actually understand what any of this means.

Plus a link isn't gonna change your mind is it? I mean you are already ignoring the huge death tolls from socialism and communism in the last century, and if millions of deaths can't sway your perspective I'm sure one persons post to a link online will have make any difference.",ThroughTheShadows,e8n53er,SandersForPresident
">Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell didn’t have the most enjoyable of dinners on Friday night when he was repeatedly confronted by angry diners at a Louisville Cuban restaurant. TMZ published a video showing one heckler coming up to the Kentucky Republican and his wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, while they were at the restaurant. “Why don’t you get out of here?” the men can be heard yelling at McConnell. “Why don’t you leave the entire country?” Others in the restaurant told the man to leave the senator alone. That man also “slammed his fists down on McConnell’s table, grabbed his doggie bag and threw the food out the door of the restaurant,” the woman who recorded the video told TMZ. The main heckler was apparently angry about the senator’s stance on Social Security and health care.

>Another witness confirmed the altercation to the Louisville Courier Journal. The man “took McConnell’s to-go box off the table, opened the door to Bardstown Road and dumped the food on the sidewalk,” the paper reported. The witness also said there were other confrontations before the one caught on tape. Earlier, a woman approached McConnell’s table and called him a “traitor” while others in the restaurant clapped. McConnell remained silent but Chao loudly called on the protesters to leave them alone.

>A spokesman for McConnell said the senator and his wife “appreciate those who spoke up against incivility” and insisted the pair enjoyed their dinner. “They hope other patrons weren’t too inconvenienced by left-wing tantrums,” Robert Steurer said. “As the leader often says, the Senate will not be intimidated by the antics of far-left protesters.”",gideonvwainwright,e87awyg,SandersForPresident
"Good, lets make every single one of these scumbags afraid to show their faces in public.",BopTheDrass,e87da0x,SandersForPresident
"[Data Benchmarks *for the State*](https://nlihc.org/sites/default/files/oor/files/reports/state/OOR_2018_NY.pdf)

>Every American – regardless of income – should have a fundamental right to safe, decent, and affordable housing.  Without a stable home, children suffer emotionally and at school.  Seniors cannot possibly retire with dignity and respect.  

>In America today, nearly 11 million families pay more than half of their limited incomes toward rent and utilities. That leaves precious little for other essentials, like food, transportation and health care. This is a national disgrace. I simply do not know how else to describe it.  

>The affordable housing crisis demands that we think big and act boldly. We must make a historic and sustained commitment to ensure that every family has an affordable place to live and thrive. We must start to close the housing-wage gap by raising the minimum wage.  

>In the richest country in history, no family should have to make the awful choice between putting food on the table and keeping a roof over their heads. This is America. We have the resources to solve the affordable housing crisis. We have the solutions that work.  What we need is the will to do what is right.  

>As you read this report, I urge you to join the National Low Income Housing Coalition and people across the country in lifting up your voice to call for ending homelessness and housing poverty in America. Now more than ever, we need millions of ordinary Americans to stand up and demand real change from the bottom up. Together, we can make sure every American has a secure and affordable place to call home.  

-[Bernie](https://nlihc.org/sites/default/files/oor/OOR_2018.pdf)
",Chartis,e85f6kj,SandersForPresident
Rule #1 of getting what you want: start the conversation high!,meatduck12,e85eghz,SandersForPresident
"She's right. Someone has to bring it up now, or the conversation will get pushed off too long to normalize the idea, until we find our wages lagging behind again.",filmantopia,e85isgt,SandersForPresident
Now THAT’s what I’m talkin about!! 👏🏽,supremexrising,e85eddd,SandersForPresident
"I'm not sure that this is an economically viable plan. While I would love to see a world where, in todays valuation of the dollar, $30/hr was the standard I simply don't think that pegging it at such over a less than two year period would help.  

More foresight would be encouraging",fae-daemon,e867jjh,SandersForPresident
"I like the idea of a higher minimum wage, but I'd like to see the cost of living per state factored in.  Due to import costs, Hawaii is routinely one of the higher cost states.  In cheaper states, I don't see why businesses can't have a livable wage that's also lower than what we'd need.

No, I'm not mathing it out.",Quietech,e860z7f,SandersForPresident
THANK YOU. ,Valridagan,e867zg3,SandersForPresident
Seems excessive to me. ,PhasersSetToKill,e864jkd,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e85fmxg,SandersForPresident
I'm all for a higher min wage. But what does that do to the valuation of teachers who barely make that now? Does everyone get an adjustment up to a point? ,The_Catalyst_89,e86c8uf,SandersForPresident
Fuck it.  Just make it a $100 per hour minimum wage.,BOMBTHROWINGGENIUS,e85ywfr,SandersForPresident
Why not $100? ,Dmartin315,e85mqwe,SandersForPresident
Reel it in champ. You'll kill the movement before it starts.,mindtapped,e869qc4,SandersForPresident
Why not $100???,ntheg111,e860g5f,SandersForPresident
"No, no, no, no, no. 

Small business owner here: What the fuck? 
If the minimum wage goes up too high, small businesses won’t be able to afford it. It’s not like we make that much to begin with. 

$15 per hour, great. $30 per hour and you’re pricing out small businesses as large corporations are the only businesses who can afford that kind of pay. Amazon is already causing many small businesses to close. Use some common sense.

How are small business owners going to be able to afford paying $30/hour AND employee healthcare? Maybe if single-payer was actually a thing (since it would help small business owners), but it isn’t yet. 

I am as much of a Bernie supporter as the next person, but the left and the right have to stop fucking over small business owners. We are the largest job creators in the US and we have to compete against Amazon, Target, Walmart, etc. with about .001% of the capital. The left wants us to pay $30/hour. The right wants us to pay for healthcare (rather than having single-payer) and take away our fucking tax deductions to subsidize the wealthy.",Wildflowerneu,e86jsy7,SandersForPresident
"New York city has ~2.2m renters that account for over 2/3^rds of households. Based on the area median income, $535 dollars is the monthly rent affordable to meet the federal standard of no more than 30% of a household’s gross income being spent on rent and utilities.

This proposal is sound, or even low. It's our thinking that needs to be adjusted, as well as NYC's minimum ",Chartis,e85srvf,SandersForPresident
"It's a similar argument to the ""trickle down"" tax cuts Republicans offer, except when money is in the hands of workers, it actually does get spent back into the economy instead of dumped into tax-dodging money schemes. Most of those companies paying the $30/hr will see an increase in business.",schphung,e868r7k,SandersForPresident
$60000 a year is more than the US per capita gdp. It's way too high.,,e86yn86,SandersForPresident
The figures have already been calculated: https://nlihc.org/oor,Chartis,e86135k,SandersForPresident
"Out of curiosity, have you ever lived in New York City before?",walcotted,e867r3w,SandersForPresident
"To afford an apartment. And then what? Do you also need a car? A degree? A babysitter? Insurance? Saving for retirement? Need a new set of tires the same month your air conditioner goes out in July? In many places this is not all attainable comfortably without a 20$-30 hr wage. I would say most Americans have to forego one or more of those things we call basic necessities in order to afford the other. And many forego multiple just to put food on the table. And many require government assistance to even feed their kids or afford a roof over their heads while working one or two jobs. Sometimes three. **It is most definitely not too much to ask for** just because you haven't seen the needs of others as often as many of us have. With a 30 dollar minimum wage, my friend wouldn't have had to give up her kids for 2 years and get kicked out of her house. ***She was working 2 jobs and still couldn't afford a place to live***. And that's just one of the many stories that exist in America today. ",Towns-a-Million,e86b3uf,SandersForPresident
"Ever lived in NYC?

62,000/yr is the same as ~33,600 in Kansas City. 

...or ~34,000 in Nashville

...or ~46,300 in Portland. 

Not absurd at all. ",Chumstick,e85gyae,SandersForPresident
"Average cost of living in NYC is roughly $50,000 a year.

This would give people spending money to boost the economy as well.

",MelGibsonDerp,e85pfw6,SandersForPresident
"If you think that paying people a living wage is too extreme, you’re not a moderate Democrat, you’re a Republican plain and simple.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85w2mq,SandersForPresident
"Naturally, other workers' bargaining power will increase as the minimum wage (wage floor) is set at $30 an hour. Its not an unreasonable figure considering NYC employers should at least pay workers in menial jobs as much as in Switzerland with a GDP per capita similar to NYC. NYC employers also do not have to pay for labor rights like they have in Switzerland. $12 an hour in NYC is absurd.",Joldata,e86e0cu,SandersForPresident
"Go back to T\_D, Trumpanzee.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e865wtp,SandersForPresident
And here I thought we were done with these hack responses. ,rws723,e85rld6,SandersForPresident
Because $200k a year is not a living wage. Idk how expensive it is to live in New York but I'm sure $60k is closer to a reasonable living wage. How much do you make a year?,kayzingzingy,e85ueg6,SandersForPresident
"Why not have everyone be paid $1 an hour and then everyone will be able to have jobs because the job creators will have all the money to plant job trees! People don't need spending money, food or rent!",Rakonas,e861w7o,SandersForPresident
"$10,000!!!",GreatAide,e85rxyr,SandersForPresident
"Yeah let's aim real fucking low. That'll teach em

*/s apparently that was needed. ",Towns-a-Million,e86b66u,SandersForPresident
"Go back to T\_D, Trumpanzee.",Thangleby_Slapdiback,e865xve,SandersForPresident
hell yea let's do it,lachumproyale1210,e86a841,SandersForPresident
"On the other hand, most companies will work hard to find ways to avoid paying that $30/hour.  McDonald's is already putting computerized ordering kiosks in some locations, many stores have self checkout options where one employee can oversee 8-10 registers at a time.  Projects like that would become a lot more cost effective and greatly expand if minimum wage increased by 2-3x.  Companies aren't just going to accept reduced profits, they'll find a way to keep getting richer because corporations no longer feel responsible to the public or their employees, they only care about shareholders who demand big quarterly profits and frequent dividends.",wiljc3,e86dkji,SandersForPresident
"I understand that. Propensity to spend versus propensity to save is much, much higher for lower income groups. Trickle down economics is a sham. Spending is important because of the money multiplier effects, and the quality of life changes higher wages bring is a *huge* deal.  

My point is that it's just not viable to bring this about soely through mandated minimum wage increases, particularly in such a short time span. It's a myopic and misinformed approach. You need many more tools in your toolkit to bring about a healthy change to this standard. It sounds so easy, but the economy is a complex machine.",fae-daemon,e87vsck,SandersForPresident
"> Out of curiosity, have you ever lived in New York City before?

I was born there, not far from Bernie's birthplace.  Would love to go back, but it's completely unaffordable now.  Now if we did more to help keep the cost of living down for the middle class...",Dunan,e88lfin,SandersForPresident
"Nope, but I understand that New York is expensive to live in and you need to make a lot to get by in the city. but I don’t see a lot of smaller places being able to afford to pay employees 30/hr with out cutting hours drastically or raising prices drastically.",PhasersSetToKill,e8684y3,SandersForPresident
"Out of curiosity, have you ever been a small business owner? We are the largest job creators in the US, yet we continuously get shit on by the right and the left. 

If this goes into effect, then congratulations! You’ve put small businesses out of business in favor of large corporations that can afford this shit. ",Wildflowerneu,e86k6pq,SandersForPresident
"Its almost like the federal minimum wage needs to be set using some type of regional index or something..

$30 minimum wage in rural San Francisco is stupidly low and $30 minimum wage in rural Arkansas is stupidly high.",foofaw,e860gc5,SandersForPresident
Can you copy and paste the previous answers then.i dont know where this sub truly stands on this.  I can  tell you right now at 30 dollars an hour I'm fired.  ,Dmartin315,e85rze4,SandersForPresident
Right? The goal is to make it ***livable*** not rich af,Towns-a-Million,e86b8wo,SandersForPresident
The thing about NY is it very big and people can do what I did and move out of the city. The city it's crazy hard to find a place to live since its limited space.  But I moved upstate. And can afford to rent a 3 bedroom house food internet cell phone etc. And I really like what I have and dont want my job to disappear from something like this.  ,Dmartin315,e86bxrw,SandersForPresident
That's not really how the world works though.  ,Dmartin315,e86bijr,SandersForPresident
"> Go back to T_D, Trumpanzee.

lol you're running an old firmware, NPC. Update yourself :D ",ntheg111,e8663vj,SandersForPresident
I am totally down with making that much money. I could start my own extreme make over house edition and do all sorts of cool stuff,Towns-a-Million,e86bdg9,SandersForPresident
"That's a separate issue. On that note, though, megacorporations shouldn't exist on the same playing field as small companies. ",schphung,e86emgw,SandersForPresident
That's where the automation tax comes in handy.,terrasparks,e86igdx,SandersForPresident
"This.  The main argument against increased minimum wage is that the cost of goods and services will go up in response.  While this is true, it's only because the people who decide the cost of those goods and services are going to increase them so that their profits/bottom line remains what it is, even though there are other ways to account for the increased overhead from raising minimum wage- like taking it from the salaries of the corporations upper echelons.",drummer_San,e86k34f,SandersForPresident
"I do not find a problem with automation. Why should anyone be against something that creates less work for humans? There would need to be other regulation that goes with it, but there is no reason all the workers can’t keep jobs but with reduced hours. Making the same overall salary with fewer work hours is a win. The problem comes with benefits and full-time status, but that can be solved with legislation. ",argan09,e879dtv,SandersForPresident
I know for a fact Konst understands what you are saying. It sounds like your real gripe should be towards a click-baity media. ,schphung,e887t2q,SandersForPresident
"If you can't pay your employees a livable wage you probably shouldn't expect people to want to work for you. Maybe I'm ignorant on something but that's the way I see it. 

The extremely high cost of living in and or even around a big city is nothing to underestimate. ",TheMediocreCock,e869d9w,SandersForPresident
"Lol in ""favor of large corporations."" No, I mean in favor of the many. You do realize that there are far more minimum-wage workers than small business owners? I would love to see the percentage of small business owners who literally go hungry compared to the percentage of workers who go hungry because they are paid a wage that hasn't changed since 2009.  ",walcotted,e871nzl,SandersForPresident
NYC cost of living is double of what a normal city would cost. Hence why it's double the living wage of $15. ,rws723,e85s2la,SandersForPresident
"I love that the guy calling someone an NPC is one of like 4 posts all saying the same ""why not make it $100 an hour"" lmfao. ",Towns-a-Million,e86bbgx,SandersForPresident
Fair point. I cede the argument.,fae-daemon,e88jrhe,SandersForPresident
"So you want to price out all of the small businesses and only have large corporations around? lol

Say hello to more Amazon and less mom and pop or locally-owned stores. I’m am a small business owner. I support $15/hour, but not $30/hour. I’m not wealthy. I wish I made $30/hour!",Wildflowerneu,e86k9ie,SandersForPresident
"I would love to make $30/hour. Why should small business owners pay $30/hour when some of us don’t even make $30/hour? 

Your “logic” doesn’t work in the slightest. Higher minimum wages shut small businesses down since large corporations are the only businesses that can actually afford to pay high wages. 

It’s not like small businesses choose not to pay higher wages. It’s that most of us literally can’t afford to. 

What’s worse? Not making $30/hour or not having a job at all because no one can afford to pay you $30/hour? When minimum wages increase, consumer prices don’t increase, but the number of available jobs decreases. If a small business owner can’t afford to pay their staff of 10 $30/hour, they will lay off five of them and pay the remaining five $30/hour. Now the other five don’t have jobs. That’s how it works in the real world - just ask Seattle business owners. 

Seattle’s minimum wage increase resulted in layoffs and decreased hours for workers: https://www.seattletimes.com/business/uw-study-finds-seattles-minimum-wage-is-costing-jobs/ 

Like I said, would you rather not make $30/hour or not have a job? That’s the real question. If the left wants to be taken seriously, they need to stop “thinking” as illogically as the right. ",Wildflowerneu,e8721kl,SandersForPresident
Does not help me if loss my job or half my hours from it.  I would rather have a low paying job then no job.   ,Dmartin315,e85sbx8,SandersForPresident
Why would they keep asking given you provided zero answers? Oh right,ntheg111,e86ctrs,SandersForPresident
"I love how you took the idea to pay $30 minimum in NYC, the second most expensive city in the entire country, to mean paying that to every worker in the US. The entire purpose of this article was that the wage should reflect what it takes to live in that specific area. 

I don't think we're going to see eye to eye on this one, but small businesses do choose not to pay higher wages so they can take a higher wage for themselves and keep the business operating. By definition, the owner decides how much to pocket for themselves and how much their worker receives.   ",walcotted,e872yh7,SandersForPresident
"I don’t know what your job is, but odds are that someone has to do it. If employers could just fire employees whenever they felt like it to save money, we’d all be unemployed.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85w138,SandersForPresident
Why are they paying you for a job they don't need done?,JonnyLay,e869ctf,SandersForPresident
"The answers are all over the thread. $100 is much more than a liveable wage. $30 in New York would be ideal. 15 here in Texas would be ideal. $100 isn't ideal anywhere. It's just unreasonable to need that much. I see your overinflated counter argument and it is quite a rediculous one. That sort of exaggeration doesn't make a point.

You're argument is like this: 

pro raising wage people: ""hey, let's give our kids some candy for Halloween but instead of 1 piece let's make it 2 pieces this year""

You: ""WHY NOT MAKE IT 1000 PIECES?!?""

We all see that slippery slope logical fallacy. And we do not like it. Go back to the Russia Lago echo chamber. 

",Towns-a-Million,e89kmfs,SandersForPresident
"Seattle is one of the most expensive cities in the US. LOL!

Unless you’ve ever tried running a business before, you really have no say in the matter of what wages are fair and what wages aren’t. All you’re doing is making it easier for corporations like Amazon to oust small businesses. Most small business owners are in the middle class. We aren’t all wealthy like you would like to believe. 

Most small business owners work over 70-80 hours per week. You think we work 40 hours or less per week? HA! We’re not living it up like you’d like to believe. 😂 And that’s in addition to having to cover the rent for our store or restaurant, inventory, insurance, transportation, legal work, accounting, etc. If our business fails, we lose everything. If you lose your job, you find another one. 

Clearly, neither the left or the right give a fuck about small business owners. Take your smugness elsewhere and enjoy Amazon (which treats its workers like shit) since you hypocrites don’t seem to care about the middle class. ",Wildflowerneu,e873lu4,SandersForPresident
Most jobs dont need to be done.  Most jobs are in something like a luxury field like mine.  Jobs like trash collectors farmers etc are needed but jobs like pretzel maker or icecream store they disappear.  ,Dmartin315,e86bn3e,SandersForPresident
Not every job needs to be done. I work with pottery and the margins of profit is not very high.  So if I got paid 30 dollars an hour a mug that is not $18 will go up to $40 or something.  And then no one will buy anything and then the store will close.  ,Dmartin315,e86bhdo,SandersForPresident
Arguing that it is more than you need is a complete straw man and doesn't answer the question. What is stopping us from making the wage $100?,ntheg111,e8a5sbq,SandersForPresident
"People will still want pretzels and ice cream regardless of whether or not those serving them are paid more. If anything, increasing the minimum wage will give people more money to buy those products.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e86cagy,SandersForPresident
"First of all, the price of a mug wouldn’t increase that much. The raw material cost wouldn’t change. Then it seems that you have forgotten that the customers would also see a similar increase in pay to the employees, so they would still be able to afford a more expensive product.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e86cfm1,SandersForPresident
How many mugs do you make an hour?  This is easy math.,JonnyLay,e879xpx,SandersForPresident
Then why is the argument that we should make min wage $100 an hour I bad point to bring up?  Please note my tone is not argumentative its more inquisitive .,Dmartin315,e86galr,SandersForPresident
The largest expensive in almost all small business is not the raw material it's the labor.  And most of our customers make more way more then min wage. My issue is shouldn't what I work for be my choice?  I am perfectly willing to accept a lower wage for a job since the alternative is no job.  ,Dmartin315,e86g6fc,SandersForPresident
"I make 0 we buy them for China , people come in and paint them and we fire them in a kiln.  So my productivity is reliant on people willing to purchase and giving them fantastic service. ",Dmartin315,e87gbrs,SandersForPresident
"The minimum wage must be high enough that all full-time workers are paid enough to live, but low enough that US products don’t become so expensive that they aren’t competitive globally. No city or county in the country is so expensive that you need to make $100 per hour to live, and raising wages that high would make it extremely difficult for US products to compete with foreign products.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e86lnzj,SandersForPresident
"But you’re simply incorrect. You have completely bought into the Republican framing of having to choose between a low paying job or no job. That’s just not how the economy works. If your job could easily be eliminated, it would have already been eliminated. The idea that increasing the minimum wage would eliminate jobs simply isn’t backed up by any evidence.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e86jq8s,SandersForPresident
"How many people are working there at a time, and how many people come through?  Again...this isn't hard math.",JonnyLay,e87i4x0,SandersForPresident
I still dont see why anyone has the right to tell me what I can accept for payment.  Does that not see wrong to you? I have no desire for my beliefs to be forced on anyone and wish the same of others.  I find it gross when Republican want to force pro life agenda and I also find it gross that the other side tells me what I can accept for a job.   Let me be clear I'm all for a business paying there workers $30 an hour buy I'm not ok with forcing it.  I use to be a very big Bernie bro. But i started to question some things and was kicked from groups. I still agree with him on some things.  ,Dmartin315,e86nui0,SandersForPresident
"O I'm no Republican , but I am a fan of economists like thomas sowell. And the evidence is mixed at best for both arguments.  I know from experience living in NY with min wage raising each year my friends may not have lost there jobs but hours have been cut and new hires have slowed in but I understand that may just be my experience.  ",Dmartin315,e86k67z,SandersForPresident
Avg month about 350. 2 other employees typically only needed for 15 hours a week use to be 20 hours  and I'm at 40. ,Dmartin315,e88f5jb,SandersForPresident
The problem with your idea here is that allowing people the “freedom” to work for abysmally low wages just lowers wages overall because there’s always going to be a more desperate person willing to do your job for less money.,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e86objn,SandersForPresident
"That's just not how the labor market works for the vast majority. NY is losing people I think faster then any other state, it's one of the hardest states to start a business and one then highest min wage.  I would think all these policys would make NY grow.  
 Also very please no one has been rude or mean.  I come here to have my mind changed since I believe that the best thing someone can do for anyone  convince then tochange there minds.  The Donald and late stage capitalism just ban me. So thank you. ",Dmartin315,e86r4cx,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](http://registertovote.ca.gov/): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/vote-mail/#apply): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e88dap3,SandersForPresident
Someone should do this with left-leaning economics students. Counter the voodoo economics spread by the right. ,,e876c1w,SandersForPresident
prison and jail should be only for people who are threats to the psychical safety and well being of the community.,minnesota_hunters,e86f04p,SandersForPresident
Here’s Bernie’s tweet:    [Congratulations to @Dodgers and @YasielPuig! Looks like those pointers worked.](https://twitter.com/berniesanders/status/1054014965009522689?s=21),gideonvwainwright,e87dxj6,SandersForPresident
Source: https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1054043188749615105,Chartis,e86odup,SandersForPresident
"This is one of the most decisive endorsements of Sanders I've ever seen. 

From the president of third way, on how they are open to a Warren presidency:

""Senators often look and sound different as presidential candidates, so we really don’t yet know how she—or any of her Senate colleagues—would run. The exception is Senator Sanders. We’re open to everybody except for him.""

Saudi funded think tanks absolutely refuse to consider a Sanders candidacy, but are okay with everyone else. Sanders should be blasting this from the rooftops.",The_Popular_Populist,e86txjz,SandersForPresident
"IMO this is written to fire up divisiveness and smacks of Politico's recent hit piece barrage against Bernie.  

>at that planning session disagreed with how big of a threat she posed  

---

>[I don't know what will happen. Of course, I speak to Elizabeth almost every day ... We will see what happens.](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/10/20/bernie-sanders-elizabeth-warren-2020-919825)    

---  

They are working together, Bernie counts her as a friend and calls her his favorite Senator.  

>[Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders sent a letter to Jeff Bezos, the Chief Executive Officer of Amazon, to request information about the distribution of anti-union materials that potentially encourage illegal interference with thousands of workers' rights at Whole Foods, Amazon's recently](https://www.sanders.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/warren-sanders-criticize-amazons-distribution-of-anti-union-video-at-whole-foods)",Chartis,e86qc4j,SandersForPresident
"Not really in loop, how likely it is she runs if Bernie runs?",sasiralla,e86pon1,SandersForPresident
">Sanders’ team also dares Warren to try appealing to his voters by saying he can’t win.

>“Those passionate folk on the left, they want champions,” said another Sanders advisor. “They’re not calculators in that kind of way.”",gideonvwainwright,e86qcs7,SandersForPresident
">Sanders hasn’t decided about running, though it weighs heavily on him to make sure Trump loses. Part of the thinking behind his week-long cross-country tour campaigning for other candidates is testing how much his appeal has held up (so far, to over-packed overflow rooms). As Sanders decides whether to run again, advisers often cite the 45 percent of the primary vote he got in 2016, though the senator himself thinks less about getting deference from his performance two years ago than drawing on the strength he’s continued to build since.

>He and Warren are ideological allies who have developed a good working relationship—not friends, but warmer with each other than most senators are. He respects her, thinks she gets it, despite the distinctions she’s recently made to point out that she, unlike the Democratic socialist from Vermont, is “a capitalist.” Sanders invited her to appear at a few events he hosted. They did some web videos together. Showdowns were avoided, like when Sanders declined to endorse his old ally Dennis Kucinich in the Democratic primary for Ohio governor earlier this year because it would have put him at odds with Warren, who had immediately backed her protégé Richard Cordray in the race.

>Warren is close to pulling the trigger on a run, and spent the last two years putting together the pieces for a campaign, accelerating since the end of the summer. **This included some deliberate overtures to Sanders’ world, like reaching out to Nina Turner, the former Ohio state senator who now runs the Sanders-inspired group Our Revolution, and to RoseAnn DeMoro, the former head of the National Nurses Union, which spent millions and went all out for him in 2016.**

...............................

>Strategically, Warren started making clear moves to show her seriousness, from making a tactical decision to say a few weeks ago that she would take a “hard look at running” after the midterms, **to arranging a Washington Post story last Sunday that showed off the inner workings of her political operation paired with a rollout in the Boston Globe and on Twitter on the Cherokee question.**

>“He’s not the kind of guy that you intimidate out of something,” said Sanders adviser Mark Longabaugh.

>For a long time, it didn’t seem like things were going to go down this way.",gideonvwainwright,e86p4ss,SandersForPresident
">Warren moved early to put away a question about her Native American heritage that she would have faced constantly on the trail. **But what it demonstrated to the competition was how much Trump had gotten under her skin, that she was in a mindset still defined by trying to avoid repeating Clinton’s mistakes in 2016, and that she still is coming off buttoned up and cold in the videos that were part of the rollout.**

>More importantly to the strategists sizing each other up: **Part of Warren’s strength was always seen as the competence of her staff and advisers. After such a big blunder, now they’re not so sure.** At least, people working for several other likely candidates said, Warren’s team should have reached out ahead of time to the Cherokee Nation to head off the statement it put out criticizing her for claiming vindication from the blood test.

.................................

>Meanwhile, Westin said, “Bernie has risen a lot since 2016. He’s now a household name in a way that he wasn’t. His message resonates with our folks.”

>Part of the Warren thinking is that, if both run, **she could position herself as the alternative to Sanders, saying she’s the one who has clear progressive credentials but who could win. There’s some openness to that, even in odd places, like Third Way, the centrist Democratic think tank** that initially after 2016 seemed to be on a single-minded mission to stop her from being the nominee.

>Not anymore.

>“Senators often look and sound different as presidential candidates, so we really don’t yet know how she—or any of her Senate colleagues—would run. **The exception is Senator Sanders. We’re open to everybody except for him,” said Third Way senior vice president Matt Bennett.**

",gideonvwainwright,e86py8x,SandersForPresident
Spot on.,gideonvwainwright,e86up41,SandersForPresident
"It's by Edward-Isaac Dovere. The guy constantly writes Bernie hit pieces.

&nbsp;

Some highlights:

* [Bernie’s army in disarray](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/05/21/bernie-sanders-democrats-2018-599331)

* [Inside the bitter last days of Bernie's revolution
](https://www.politico.com/story/2016/06/bernie-sanders-campaign-last-days-224041)

* [Bernie Sanders promoted false story on reporting Russian trolls
](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/24/bernie-sanders-russian-trolls-false-story-423413)

* [Bernie Sanders to run as a Democrat — but not accept nomination
](https://www.politico.eu/article/bernie-sanders-to-run-as-a-democrat-but-not-accept-nomination/)

* [Our Revolution keeps consultant who made anti-immigrant comments
](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/05/22/our-revolution-sanders-turner-figaro-603410)

&nbsp;

He's a hack. I don't trust him. I don't necessarily doubt the veracity of what's stated in the piece, but I definitely think he wants to stoke tensions and does not have good intentions for the progressive movement.",ParadigmacticPassion,e86tt1f,SandersForPresident
"Idk. If we are to believe this Atlantic piece, she’s making moves to snatch Nina and de Moro and connect with Third Way as Hillary 2.0. She’s shrewd but not as smart as Bernie. I think they both run but the people are with Bernie. Bernie will run against her because she clearly can’t beat Trump, but Bernie can. Her cold, angry schoolmarm schtick doesn’t work against Trump’s heat. Only Bernie runs hotter than Trump.",gideonvwainwright,e86qswz,SandersForPresident
"Nothing is a guarantee, but she is putting herself in a position to run in 2020. Plus there's no denying she has her own ambition, regardless of whether she is an ideological partner of Bernie.",pablonieve,e86rj8q,SandersForPresident
"According to this piece, likely.",gideonvwainwright,e86rdvh,SandersForPresident
You know you’re the real deal when you’re the only candidate Third Way will not support.,Zepherx22,e87359n,SandersForPresident
"I don't think we should believe it. It relies on one unnamed source, a minority report rumor from a meeting in January, & straight up lies: ""not friends""

>[My friend Elizabeth Warren](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/my-friend-elizabeth-warren-is-right-its-time-to-join-the-rest-of-the-industriali/1659768394078158/)  

The mainstream narrative is all about this recently. Bernie is too hot and his focus on the midberns is stacking up too much confidence for him in the opinions of the power-that-be.  

One thing is true: [Bernie runs hotter than Trump.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp2JDrLXcAAI4tL.png)",Chartis,e86rk0a,SandersForPresident
but isn't it gonna split the progressive vote in the primary? Also Sanders has much more name recognition and favorability rating,sasiralla,e86to7q,SandersForPresident
"Honestly I think they’re “work friends” who work together when it makes sense. I think she would knife him in a second for her ambition (she already did in her refusal to endorse him), and she probably has Hillary’s crew advising her who have backed away from Gillibrand, who was supposed to be Hillary 2.0. Warren is a former Republican, who is smart on bankruptcy legislation and banks, and talks about income inequality. She also voted for all the military spending Trump wanted, said nothing about DAPL, her foreign policy is nonexistent.

Warren’s big mistake was that she made a deal with Hillary to not run against her in 2015. The only reason Bernie ever launched a primary campaign and became a worldwide phenomenon was because Warren stayed out. She has no good political instincts.",gideonvwainwright,e86tqdt,SandersForPresident
"Also I don’t believe for a second that Nina and deMoro would ever jump to Warren. That Warren or her people - or the Clintonites pushing this - did, is what’s interesting.",gideonvwainwright,e86ufap,SandersForPresident
"It could. But this may be her last real chance to run for President and she believes she has a real chance to win.

If she is committed to running, would Bernie stand aside to avoid splitting the progressive vote?",pablonieve,e86tw99,SandersForPresident
"No because she can’t beat Trump. And he can, clearly. She should stand aside.",gideonvwainwright,e86ukt7,SandersForPresident
"But if she doesn't step aside, should Bernie refrain from running?",pablonieve,e86vzrw,SandersForPresident
"No, because she can’t beat Trump.",gideonvwainwright,e86wbvf,SandersForPresident
"For those interested in economics I highly recommend:  

https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9papuq/stephanie_kelton_but_how_will_we_pay_for_it  

Specifically about Pharma arguments, Ana Kasparian recently laid down some fire:  

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5UzhzIa7w-A&feature=youtu.be&t=481",Chartis,e86tlp2,SandersForPresident
"he should stop being so nice and call trump the fascist he is. Time for being is nice is over Bernie, put on the 2020 mode",sasiralla,e861l3l,SandersForPresident
"If Saudi Arabia does anything to Bernie, it'll be fucking war. ",some_random_kaluna,e85ohye,SandersForPresident
"Bernie also on the right side of history on this one, who knew?",EthanLurks,e85qlwt,SandersForPresident
What do you think Bernie would do if Saudi Arabia killed Bernie? I don't think he'd advocate for war. He'd probably be doing what he's doing right now...,Berniecanuck,e85xbuw,SandersForPresident
I'd put money on establishment Democrats hoping Saudi Arabia takes out Bernie so he'll stop endangering their money train...,Megneous,e861el8,SandersForPresident
Bernie did,Berniecanuck,e85xcr6,SandersForPresident
"[Source](https://www.reddit.com/r/PoliticalHumor/comments/9pwxh0/seems_legit/) of image: u/mixedelements

Title source: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/19/us/politics/trump-saudi-arabia-journalist-khashoggi.html  

[Aaron C. Davis:](https://twitter.com/byaaroncdavis/status/1053629731961106432)

* As Saudi government pins Khashoggi’s death on underlings, [WashPost obtains passport travel records showing five were in Crown Prince’s security entourage.](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/investigations/khashoggi-saudi-suspects) They traveled to the U.S. repeatedly in recent years ahead of MBS.",Chartis,e85e293,SandersForPresident
Pretty much,Greg06897,e86qg5w,SandersForPresident
Can't wait for the MAGA chuds to start defending Saudi Arabia lol,BopTheDrass,e85e8eb,SandersForPresident
I've seen a few already on T_D saying that their authoritarianism is something we should look into. Of course I don't know if they were Russian or not. But a few people responded positively and up voted. I can't find it right now but if you follow againsthatesubreddits or just casually browse the more hateful posts on T_D you're likely to find some ,Towns-a-Million,e86lwhl,SandersForPresident
Don’t hold your breath Sherrilyn.,CinnamonJ,e86uev6,SandersForPresident
">This is very good news. Congratulations to the people of this coalition who fought back against big money interests and anti-immigration policies. We cannot rebuild the disappearing middle class without revitalizing the trade union movement in this country and giving immigrant workers the power to fight for the decent wages and benefits they deserve. This fight is one that must be carried forth in every state in this country because immigrants rights are our rights.  

-[Bernie Sanders](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157393928222908)",Chartis,e86jmq3,SandersForPresident
">Strong progressives are winning elections all over this country... There is a waking up among the American people. A desire to move in a very different direction. A disgust with oligarchy. This country, despite Donald Trump, is going to have a very bright future.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Sept 23^rd '18](https://youtu.be/O820i91dp1w?t=3966)  

---

October 19 | Bloomington IN - [Liz Watson](https://lizforindiana.com)  
October 19 | Ann Arbor MI - [Gretchen Whitmer](https://www.gretchenwhitmer.com)  
October 20 | Columbia SC - [Medicare For All](https://www.postandcourier.com/politics/bernie-sanders-will-headline-south-carolina-rally-later-this-month/article_01189a68-cccd-11e8-9a75-f38ff0bed96f.html)    
Oct 20 & 21| Sioux City/Fort Dodge/Ames IA - [J.D. Scholten](https://www.scholten4iowa.com)  
October 22 | Bernie Rallies: Kenosha WI - [Randy Bryce](https://www.randybryceforcongress.com/)  
October 22 | Milwaukee WI - [Tammy Baldwin](https://www.baldwin.senate.gov)  
October 23 | Tuscon & Tempe AZ - [David Garcia](https://dg4az.com)  
October 24 | Boulder & Fort Collins CO - [Jared Polis](https://polisforcolorado.com)  
October 25 | Reno/Las Vegas NV - [Jacky Rosen](https://www.rosenfornevada.com)  
Oct 26 & 27| La Jolla/Oakland/San Diego CA - [Barbara Lee](http://www.barbaraleeforcongress.org), [Ammar Campa-Najjar](https://www.campacampaign.com), & [Mike Levin](https://mikelevin.org)  
October 29 | Colchester VT - Bernie On: [Senate Debate & Election Forum](https://vtdigger.org/2018/10/09/sanders-plans-9-state-tour-ahead-midterm-elections/)  

[Itinerary](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive)


  

Selected highlights from other stops:",Chartis,e85jmhv,SandersForPresident
">The decision we made was to build on what we had accomplished, and that was the birth of Our Revolution.  

---  

>We are wasting hundreds of billions of dollars every single year.  

>You can't afford your electric bills (which I gather in this state are pretty high. It's important that the working people have to bail out the nuclear industry I guess, right? [/s])  

[49:53](https://youtu.be/zYS138wvA4w?t=2993)
>When Trump says 'there are differences of opinion' he's lying. And all that he is doing is standing with the fossil fuel industry in their efforts to make short term profits rather than worrying about the future of this plant. That is a disgrace and unforgivable.  

>100 years ago... all of the religious bigotry against the Catholics, and the Italians, and the Irish, and the Jews... People's whose names we will never know. Incredibly brave people who echoed then... 'We base our judgment on their character as human beings'.  

>We are going forwards as one people.  

>Mark my words: The day is going to come sooner than later when people stand together... 

[56:41](https://youtu.be/zYS138wvA4w?t=3402)
>The Human spirit of justice and love is going to win. We are going to come together to create the nation we know we can become!  

>Thank you all very much.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 20^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYS138wvA4w&feature=youtu.be&t=955)  
",Chartis,e85joew,SandersForPresident
"
>When you hear Paul Ryan and other talk about ""entitlement reform"" hang on to your wallets folks, they mean drastic cuts to Social Security, Medicare, & Medicaid. 
>""Chained CPI"" it means the Cost Of Living Allowances that seniors now get (which are scarce and limited), they want to cut them back even further. Or they want to raise the retirement age for Medicare.  
>How do you stay warm in the winter? How do you feed yourself? How do you pay for the medicine that you need on $13,000 a year? You can't do it. And that's why we're going to expand benefits for lower income seniors by lifting that cap on Social Security Taxes.  

---  

>Right now all over the world the exact same medicine sold in the United States is sold for a fraction of the price.
>The reason for that is over the last 20 years the pharmaceutical industry has spent over $4,000,000,000 in lobbying & campaign contributions.  
>In California for 1 ballot item they spent $131,000,000. Meanwhile 1 out of 5 Americans cannot afford the medicine that they need, and many seniors cut their pills in half.  

>1. Have Medicare start negotiating prices  
>2. Give Americans the opportunity to start purchasing safe medicine from aboard  
>3. Members of Congress who are much more interested in getting campaign contributions from the pharmaceutical & insurance companies than protecting the needs of working Americans. That has got to change.  

>Do everything you can in the next 2 weeks  

---  

[48:32]( https://youtu.be/4cuJFFlayb0?t=2912)  
>On virtually every single issue that's out there:  

>* Campaign finance reform, stopping billionaires from buying elections  
>* Voter suppression  
>* Medicare For All... 70% of the American people want Medicare For All  
>* A living wage
>* Pay equity for women  
>* Criminal justice reform  
>* Immigration reform  
>* Transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels  
>* Gun safety legislation  

>We have the American people behind us.  

>Voter turnout was embarrassingly and abysmally low... that is what right-wing Republicans &their  billionaire sponsors want. They want to buy elections and make sure that:  

>* working people  
>* young people  
>* people of color  

>are not voting. **This November 6^th we've got to turn all that around!**  

>A lot of ugly, lying TV ads going on all over this country. But at the end of the day if we:  

>* stand up
>* fight back
>* come out to vote  

>Liz & some great people all over this country are going to win. We're going to begin the process of transforming this country.  

>Thank you all.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cuJFFlayb0&feature=youtu.be&t=645)  ",Chartis,e85jpzs,SandersForPresident
">...play a monumental role in the future of this country. My Republicans colleagues want people not to vote.  

>each and every one of you goes out and brings out 2 other friends or family members... that's what ya got to do.    

>brave people throughout our history have fought and died to defend American democracy. We are not going to turn our backs on those heroes & heroines. The essence of democracy is citizen participation.    

>* somebody works 40 hours a week, they should not live in poverty  
>* equal pay for equal work  
>* make public colleges & universities tuition free  
>* lower student debt
>* rebuild our crumbling infrastructure with well paid union labor  
>* health care is a right... we are going to lower the cost of health care for the American people & the business community through Medicare For All     

---  

>This cowardly President:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to Social Security  
>* is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* bows down to Putin 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* gave tax breaks to the rich  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have  
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner  

>For hundreds of year what we have seen are brave & courageous people standing up and saying NO! We are going to:

>* oppose slavery  
>* discrimination  
>* not allow women to be seen as 2^nd class citizens  
>* not be prejudice against people in the gay community   
>* not going to be religious bigots  

>For years & years we have been winning that struggle for democracy, becoming a less discriminatory society... we are going forwards!  

>In this great country of ours, in the United States of America, we are not going to:  

>* have more income & wealth inequality than any other country
>* tolerate discrimination  
>* not guarantee health care to all people  

>This is a great nation! We are proud of this nation!  

>Okay kid, all yours.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOB-6n63N6Y&feature=youtu.be&t=583)
",Chartis,e85jqis,SandersForPresident
">Your job is to sit down with people who say their vote doesn't matter... No more complaining. No more despair. Now is the time to stand up, fight back, & vote.  

>I understand why many of you voted for Donald Trump:  

>* You're hurting financially
>* You're working longer hours for lower wages  
>* You're worried about your kids
>* You're worried about your jobs leaving this country  

>In Donald Trump we have a President who is a pathological liar.  

---  

>99% of the scientists who study the climate understand that climate change is:  

>* real
>* caused by human activity  
>* causing devastating problems in the United States in and all over the world  

>Transform our energy system away from fossil fuel and make massive cuts in carbon in the atmosphere: If we do not do that is 12 years the planet will suffer irreparable harm.  

---  

>You are living in the wealthiest country in the history of the World. There is no rational reason why all American's don't have a decent standard of living...  

>My discussions with parents in Flint, and what they have seen, have been the most painful and heart-rending discussions I have ever experienced. My wife had to walk out of the room.  

---  

>We have a criminal justice system which is broken and which is racist.   

>* We have more people in jail than any other nation on Earth including China, which is much so larger than we are and happens to be an authoritarian society. 
>* The people who are imprisoned are disproportionately African American, Latino, & Native American. 
>* The so-called 'War on Drugs' has been an abysmal failure which has ruined many, many lives.  

[1:48:52]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTd3T81WDQs&feature=youtu.be&t=6532)
>Instead of giving criminal records to people who possess marijuana, maybe we should have given criminal records to the crooks on Wall Street who destroyed our economy.  

---  

>80% of the American people believe that the almost 2 million people in or eligible for the DACA program should have legal protection.  
>We have got to move to comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship.  

---  

>Forget the words that came out of Trump's mouth. They're not worth anything... they are going to come back and cut:  

>* Social Security
>* Medicare
>* Medicaid  

>Mitch McConnell made that very clear just the other day...  
>I say the time is now to expand & extend Social Security!   

---  

>We should not be living in a nation where:  

>* 3 people own more wealth than the bottom 1/2 of the American people
>* The top 0.1% own more wealth than the bottom 90%  
>* Over 40% of new income is going to the top 1%  

>This campaign has very much to do with values: Who we are as Americans... Are we comfortable with a President who is trying to divide us up? We are one people, one nation...  

---  

>The most important mid-term election in the modern history of our country. It is an election that is about:  

>* if we have a government that represents all people  
>* people who bring us together  
>* not accepting somebody who is a pathological liar  

>Incredibly brave people throughout our country's history have fought and died to protect democracy & our way of life. The essence of our way of life in a democracy is about:  

>* We vote and hold accountable the people we elect.  

>Do not turn your back on those heroes & heroines who have died to defend democracy. You have a moral responsibility to participate in the democratic way of life. You have got to:  

>* Come out and vote on November 6^th
>* Do everything you can to bring out as many people as possible.  

>Thank you all very much.  


-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yvP_WhnStiM)  ",Chartis,e85jtzu,SandersForPresident
"[iwillvote.com](https://iwillvote.com/)

>What living in a democracy is about... The future of this planet, the future of this country is almost as important as who wins the Superbowl or the World Series...

>It's not good enough just to vote every 2 years or 4 years... each one of you bringing out 4 of your friends or relatives...  

>Let's continue going forward together.  

-Bernie, [Oct 6^th '18](https://youtu.be/Bw8_0N8vdHk?t=1099)",Chartis,e8585gy,SandersForPresident
"Latinos are western and Christian, this idiot knows nothing. Time to put this on ads in Iowa so that he will get Roy moore'd",Zincoshine_2018,e87yyat,SandersForPresident
That guy's ugly mug is r/beholdthemasterrace material,BopTheDrass,e86j1jx,SandersForPresident
"Iowa 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://mymvd.iowadot.gov/Account/Login?ReturnUrl=%2fVoterRegistration): October 27, 2018 

[General Election](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/pdf/absenteeballotapp.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e87vbdq,SandersForPresident
please post in other places,4now5now6now,e85nlsx,SandersForPresident
"This happens in Kansas, too.",stevenxdavis,e85qe84,SandersForPresident
Notice Jeff Weaver bottom left.,gideonvwainwright,e85mgny,SandersForPresident
"California 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](http://registertovote.ca.gov/): October 22, 2018 

[General Election](http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/vote-mail/#apply): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8633v4,SandersForPresident
Tens (or hundreds) of millions of Americans realized it before November 2016. What even is this.,RadBadTad,e85ud7p,SandersForPresident
Bernie for 2020?,Justbesilky,e84q11z,SandersForPresident
I was in Michigan last night in a line with thousands of others in the cold and rain waiting for bernie.  this is a man of the people.,eoswald,e84ve83,SandersForPresident
"32% larger (1252x1588) version of linked image:

https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Dp9gValWwAAQx4m.jpg?name=orig

*****

^[source&nbsp;code](https://github.com/qsniyg/maxurl)&nbsp;|&nbsp;[website](https://qsniyg.github.io/maxurl/)&nbsp;/&nbsp;[userscript](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/36662-image-max-url)&nbsp;(finds&nbsp;larger&nbsp;images)&nbsp;|&nbsp;[remove](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=MaxImageBot&subject=delete:+e84pkhw&message=If%20you%20are%20the%20one%20who%20submitted%20the%20post%2C%20it%20should%20be%20deleted%20within%2020%20seconds.%20If%20it%20isn%27t%2C%20please%20check%20the%20FAQ%3A%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FMaxImage%2Fcomments%2F8znfgw%2Ffaq%2F)",MaxImageBot,e84pkhw,SandersForPresident
yes,HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e84q2xh,SandersForPresident
Is it like 3rd politico hit piece on Bernie today? It’s like 6 months till campaign will begin lol,yeahimpussybitch,e85oj9c,SandersForPresident
What a waste of an article,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85wkb2,SandersForPresident
Fake news,Zincoshine_2018,e85z9xo,SandersForPresident
"Warren is not going to run, if she does she'll have to give up her senate seat, and with her state having a Republican governor, that means he can appoint a republican to replace her.",ialsoforgot,e860bdd,SandersForPresident
"> But the party has shifted left since the last presidential election, drawing closer to Sanders' positions on health care and college affordability

Well, how is this tested? With words? With emotion? The party has given Trump damn near everything. Christ. ",rws723,e85rbwb,SandersForPresident
"maybe Liz realizes that the DNA test that she did backfired


Native Americans are calling it an insult

she had a DNA test  and it showed that she was  1/1,110 Native American

It made her look not great",4now5now6now,e85oj0d,SandersForPresident
"something something about kitchen sinks.

if he runs and indeed turns out to be the front runner in all the polls (and eventually the early states) expect the absolute worst from the media and the dnc.",Surporat,e867201,SandersForPresident
"> Asked whether he and other progressive contenders should hold talks in an effort to ensure one of them prevails, Sanders told POLITICO, “I suspect that in the coming weeks and months, there will be discussions.”

> But a pre-2020 agreement would not necessarily require any candidate to immediately step aside. Instead, candidates could discuss benchmarks — fundraising, polling or early primary performance — and at what point progressive candidates would throw their support to a fellow progressive in the race.

This is pretty much the entirety of the substance of the article. Aside from some of the language, the actual content isn't really like a hit-piece, but the title gives away the true aim of Politico. They went and asked Bernie the question from the quote so that they could run this headline.

Also, has anyone else noticed that all of these recent hit pieces seem to be written by this David Siders guy? Did he get the ""Bernie smear-piece"" assignment?",ParadigmacticPassion,e86kvx0,SandersForPresident
It's not a hit piece and it's not even a negative article. I too would only like to see Bernie run and not Warren or Markley and I think the three should form a united front behind one candidate - that would be the best and most practical way to win. I sincerely hope Bernie and Warren talk about 2020 because if they both run that will absolutely pave the way for a Biden victory,damrider,e86eaiu,SandersForPresident
I know that they did hit pieces but to me this does not say much... just that they keep in touch,4now5now6now,e85omep,SandersForPresident
okay that is a really interesting point. Thank you!,4now5now6now,e8638es,SandersForPresident
got a source if that's how it works?,Surporat,e866xv9,SandersForPresident
"I checked it up and both VT and MA do special elections to choose a relpacement, although vermont mandates it takes place within 3 months and MA mandates it takes place within 6 months. Also, Vermont has a republican governor too, but he's up for reelection every 2 years and also up for reelection in 2020.",damrider,e86enkd,SandersForPresident
"The party base has moved left you can see this in polling but the party itself is pretty much still the same neoliberal corporate party it has been for the last few decades.

Edit: But not for long...",TomBurcher,e85smi0,SandersForPresident
"When they say “the party” they’re referring to the base, not Schumer and the other buffoons in Congress.",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85wlui,SandersForPresident
yep,4now5now6now,e863hdd,SandersForPresident
And her ex husband is the CEO of the company that did the test apparently. ,Syidas,e85uzgy,SandersForPresident
But in the same sentence they talk about Harris/Merkley,rws723,e86dotm,SandersForPresident
"Wow well it certainly back fired on her. She looks like an idiot playing into trunps stupid games. There were so many headlines
https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2018/oct/16/elizabeth-warren-dna-test-backfires/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2PAVv5so2s

https://www.thedailybeast.com/elizabeth-warrens-dna-stunt-alienates-native-americans

https://www.cnn.com/2018/10/16/politics/elizabeth-warren-donald-trump-pocahontas/index.html ",4now5now6now,e863gvb,SandersForPresident
"I do too but why are they not???? Sanders needs to go all through the south. PR better vote for him in the primary this time


He is the only one that visited them in their worst time and has legislation for them",4now5now6now,e85nqrs,SandersForPresident
">Mr. Trump may not know it, but the debate is over. Climate change is real, it is caused by human activity and it is already doing devastating harm throughout the planet. Our job, our moral responsibility, with or without Mr. Trump's support, is to transform our energy system away from fossil fuels — and save the planet.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157393913847908)",Chartis,e84xgvd,SandersForPresident
">The decision we made was to build on what we had accomplished, and that was the birth of Our Revolution.  

---  

>We are wasting hundreds of billions of dollars every single year.  

>You can't afford your electric bills (which I gather in this state are pretty high. It's important that the working people have to bail out the nuclear industry I guess, right? [/s])  

[49:53](https://youtu.be/zYS138wvA4w?t=2993)
>When Trump says 'there are differences of opinion' he's lying. And all that he is doing is standing with the fossil fuel industry in their efforts to make short term profits rather than worrying about the future of this plant. That is a disgrace and unforgivable.  

>100 years ago... all of the religious bigotry against the Catholics, and the Italians, and the Irish, and the Jews... People's whose names we will never know. Incredibly brave people who echoed then... 'We base our judgment on their character as human beings'.  

>We are going forwards as one people.  

>Mark my words: The day is going to come sooner than later when people stand together... 

[56:41](https://youtu.be/zYS138wvA4w?t=3402)
>The Human spirit of justice and love is going to win. We are going to come together to create the nation we know we can become!  

>Thank you all very much.

-Bernie Sanders, Oct 20^th '18 edit: [selected highlights, mostly not [mentioned at other events](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9pq30r/bernie_sanders_rallies_michigan_for_gretchen/)]
",Chartis,e854ys5,SandersForPresident
"Those were all paid actors- fake news!
Libtard snowflake jazz band!
/s

Seriously, lets make more of these moments.  *edit*  formatting ",haikudrift,e83ui5d,SandersForPresident
Here we go! :),BabaYagaaa,e844v7q,SandersForPresident
Soros checks ?,GreenThumbKC,e845uno,SandersForPresident
anyone else going to see Bernie in Ann Arbor tonight?,eoswald,e82t2r4,SandersForPresident
"If everyone in this crowd, and everyone of their age, will go *vote* on November 6th, things might happen.",Ayatollah_Bahloni,e82kl3d,SandersForPresident
Reminds me of the pictures of the crowds for Bernie!,devoted2trouble,e82v6re,SandersForPresident
Bernie gets massive crowds everywhere he goes which is gotta be a good sign for his run in 2020,KLE_,e83otab,SandersForPresident
I was there and back by the person with the big peace sign. I had no idea so many people were in front of us. WOW.,mtown4ever,e82w8nu,SandersForPresident
"^[selected ^highlights:]  

>...play a monumental role in the future of this country. My Republicans colleagues want people not to vote.  

>each and every one of you goes out and brings out 2 other friends or family members... that's what ya got to do.    

>brave people throughout our history have fought and died to defend American democracy. We are not going to turn our backs on those heroes & heroines. The essence of democracy is citizen participation.    

>* somebody works 40 hours a week, they should not live in poverty  
>* equal pay for equal work  
>* make public colleges & universities tuition free  
>* lower student debt
>* rebuild our crumbling infrastructure with well paid union labor  
>* health care is a right... we are going to lower the cost of health care for the American people & the business community through Medicare For All     

---  

>This cowardly President:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to Social Security  
>* is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* bows down to Putin 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* gave tax breaks to the rich  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have  
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner  

>For hundreds of year what we have seen are brave & courageous people standing up and saying NO! We are going to:

>* oppose slavery  
>* discrimination  
>* not allow women to be seen as 2^nd class citizens  
>* not be prejudice against people in the gay community   
>* not going to be religious bigots  

>For years & years we have been winning that struggle for democracy, becoming a less discriminatory society... we are going forwards!  

>In this great country of ours, in the United States of America, we are not going to:  

>* have more income & wealth inequality than any other country
>* tolerate discrimination  
>* not guarantee health care to all people  

>This is a great nation! We are proud of this nation!  

>Okay kid, all yours.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOB-6n63N6Y&feature=youtu.be&t=583)
",Chartis,e82psgt,SandersForPresident
"People like to say ""Bernie would have won"". But whenever I see pictures like this it reminds me that he wouldn't have just won. He would've crushed it!",KingPickle,e83d69v,SandersForPresident
"/r/ColumbusIN native here.  I almost called in to work today to attend a rally for a politician that wants to ensure the financial security of full time workers lik myself, but I decided against it because rent is due this week and I needed the overtime to pay my basic necessities because stopping at 40 hours just doesn't cut it...

In short: I am living proof that the current system is *not* working.",drummer_San,e82zuks,SandersForPresident
Entirely awesome.  ,dittidot,e82xdwx,SandersForPresident
Is anyone still doubting that this guy is running for president in 2020?  Can’t wait to vote for him again,Wkndwrz,e82xyrf,SandersForPresident
"Fucking Bernie man!  It's weird thinking back to 2106 and how much that guy inspired me, and then looking at what we ended up with.  Great job America!",skeeter1234,e83f3ey,SandersForPresident
I would've been there (and in Evansville) if I hadn't had to work for the capitalist 1%ers....,drummer_San,e82wr4p,SandersForPresident
"Indiana 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://indianavoters.in.gov/PublicSite/Public/FT1/PublicLookupMain.aspx?Link=Polling): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e82zvoh,SandersForPresident
Who cares if Bernie was filling stadiums when Hillary couldn't fill a DNC conference room.. she got 3 million more votes than him. Clearly she was the better candidate. /s,kutwijf,e834jo8,SandersForPresident
I was at this rally near the back the energy was electric but that's a given with it being a liberal college town ,maxx159,e83lq5x,SandersForPresident
"This is what will convince Bernie to run in 2020 not donors and know nothing strategists like Harris, Booker, Biden, and Warren use.",johnskiddles,e83u5gn,SandersForPresident
"Biden, who?",bitdon55,e842jfa,SandersForPresident
Hell yea Hoosiers!,ttboo,e8441s3,SandersForPresident
I was in this crowd! Super energized voters and volunteers here in Bloomington! ,eweidenbener,e849vx9,SandersForPresident
"Takes you back, ay",TheHeisenberg1,e83h798,SandersForPresident
This crowd is bigger then on Trump inauguration ,eatplov,e83hyns,SandersForPresident
"Check out the Alt-Right pages and they'll call this a ""Liberal Mob."" ",BenKatz88,e835dz8,SandersForPresident
I don't recall images of the entire crowds at Trump rallies. I think they only make it look like a lot of people.,plywooden,e846ero,SandersForPresident
Is that a lot of people for Indiana? Serious question.,BERNthisMuthaDown,e8381qc,SandersForPresident
This looks like it could fill NRG Arena,fundudeonacracker,e831hgg,SandersForPresident
"I don’t wanna start anything, but this is almost a Trump level crowd. Hillary could never amass such a following like Bernie or Trump. ",PlsDontPls,e8420za,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e839dt0,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e83wrzu,SandersForPresident
Trump gets bigger crowds,Lavarzo,e852fnp,SandersForPresident
"had it been in the morning/afternoon, but i have company tonight, maybe we'll stream it",firemage22,e82tpjf,SandersForPresident
Make it so!,dohrk,e82l5u5,SandersForPresident
everyone (a lot of them) in this crowd marched to the polls with Bernie after this event. The videos are great: [https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/19/were-voting-them-out-what-it-looked-when-horde-hoosiers-marched-bernie-sanders-early](https://www.commondreams.org/news/2018/10/19/were-voting-them-out-what-it-looked-when-horde-hoosiers-marched-bernie-sanders-early),tejota,e83dd5u,SandersForPresident
"I'm pretty sure they did last ~~year~~ time, but Hillary ""won by three million votes (tm)"" 

Don't forget though guys, voter roll purges are only suspicious in situations benefiting Republicans, forget all about NY '16...",ohgodwhatthe,e82w7y5,SandersForPresident
"I would have been there if I didn't have to work >.<

Already voted, though. :-)",nickiter,e83afkb,SandersForPresident
You look great today :D It may partly be [the cheerleader effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheerleader_effect) and all that positive energy.,Chartis,e82x7al,SandersForPresident
"[Alabama:](https://sos.alabama.gov/alabama-votes/voter/register-to-vote) October 22  
[California:](https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/) October 22. From October 23 to the day of the election, residents can still register at an election office and vote with a provisional ballot.  
[South Dakota:](https://sdsos.gov/elections-voting/voting/register-to-vote/default.aspx) October 22  

---  

[Nebraska:](https://www.nebraska.gov/apps-sos-voter-registration/) October 26  

---  

[Washington:](https://www.sos.wa.gov/elections/register.aspx) October 29  

---  

[North Carolina:](https://www.ncsbe.gov/Voters/Registering-to-vote) From October 17-November 3, residents can register and vote at the same time.  

---  

[Colorado:](https://www.sos.state.co.us/voter/pages/pub/olvr/findVoterReg.xhtml) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Connecticut:](https://voterregistration.ct.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Washington, DC:](https://www.dcboe.org/Voters/Register-To-Vote/Check-Voter-Registration-Status) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Hawaii:](https://elections.hawaii.gov/frequently-asked-questions/online-voter-registration/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Idaho:](https://apps.idahovotes.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Illinois:](https://www.elections.il.gov/votinginformation/register.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Iowa:](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/voterinformation/voterregistration.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Maine:](https://www.maine.gov/sos/cec/elec/voter-info/votreg.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Minnesota:](https://www.sos.state.mn.us/elections-voting/register-to-vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Montana:](https://sosmt.gov/elections/vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[New Hampshire:](http://sos.nh.gov/HowRegVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Utah:](http://voter.utah.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Vermont:](https://www.sec.state.vt.us/elections/voters/registration.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wisconsin:](http://myvote.wi.gov/en-US/VoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wyoming:](https://soswy.state.wy.us/Elections/RegisteringToVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
  
---

[North Dakota:](https://vip.sos.nd.gov/) None — just bring ID  

[Source](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/10/7/17947768/voter-registration-deadline-verify-2018-midterms)  ",Chartis,e831mmz,SandersForPresident
"You almost had me, then I saw the glorious (/s). Praise be unto you!",PlsDontPls,e8421wp,SandersForPresident
"Sure does, and it takes us forwards. We're progressive, that's where the future we believe in is. ",Chartis,e83ifu5,SandersForPresident
Anyone who locks themselves all day in their mom's basement would probably see that as a mob.,BopTheDrass,e84bk2o,SandersForPresident
"Watch the alt right online. They're already preparing their loyal minions for when they produce manufactured ""proof"" of foreign collusion to help Democrats to justify ignoring the results further consolidating power.

They know that without their registration rigging and an apathetic public, they will never win another election, mathematically.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e838oe8,SandersForPresident
"Bloomington is a smaller college town, so it’s a lot of people.",HoosierFanBoy,e838jn0,SandersForPresident
... 2 years before an election. It should have been Bernie. (Monday morning regrets),bitdon55,e842m6l,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #2&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e839quz,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e8477lu,SandersForPresident
So say we all!,ShasOFish,e830z4f,SandersForPresident
https://i.redd.it/tpvwf6lkd1s11.jpg,kutwijf,e834833,SandersForPresident
The only person with more name recognition than Bernie that might run is Joe Biden and Bernie would crush Joe Biden,acidjogger,e82wjwv,SandersForPresident
"Subreddit code: ""Make a good faith attempt to advance progressive issues and policies.""

When progressives and young people come out in LARGE numbers to vote we win, regardless of attempts at voter disenfranchisement.",RanLearns,e82x4g2,SandersForPresident
"> I'm pretty sure they did last year,

2 years ago.

Also, she might have had 3 million more votes, but Trump still had 180 million who did not vote against him.",MarlinMr,e82x2og,SandersForPresident
"And NY ‘18, and most likely NY ‘20. ",Snow_Unity,e83eprc,SandersForPresident
"It looks like a panoramic with a generous angle to me. I love Bernie, and the energy and leadership that he's bringing to the coming Blue-nami, but I want to make sure that we don't start exaggerating like the Trumpists.

> **Each and every one of you goes out and brings out 2 other friends or family members... that's what ya got to do.**
",BERNthisMuthaDown,e839bnz,SandersForPresident
Shows that Bernie still has massive appeal. If only the mainstream media didn’t downplay his popularity and focused on the Hilldog.,PlsDontPls,e843p0x,SandersForPresident
"[Engage!](https://i.imgur.com/lRxyptV.jpg)

Feel free to browse [our collection](https://www.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/wiki/art).

",Chartis,e838and,SandersForPresident
Why's that? All the polls I've seen have him as the frontrunner. Just curious ,its_not_Christmas,e83031l,SandersForPresident
I wonder if those attempts are elastic like those rubber band AI games where the opponent gets better if you do,robotzor,e83bay8,SandersForPresident
I was at this rally it is a bit generous but I'd say the turnout was incredible for 11 am on a weekday a few thousand at most ,maxx159,e83ls3i,SandersForPresident
"It was around 3000 people. Incredible for Indiana in a non-presidential year, on a weekday.",BopTheDrass,e84wjug,SandersForPresident
"That's awesome. Ty, I will check those out.",kutwijf,e8394rk,SandersForPresident
I think the most recent poll only surveyed people 55 years or older.,Abif,e83090c,SandersForPresident
"Biden was considered a frontrunner both previous times he ran for President.

He fades. He comes off as the standard politician that no one cares to vote for.

Not only that but he will be eaten alive for his handling of the Anita Hill hearings as well as dozens of images where he is much too....touchy with females.",MelGibsonDerp,e839lha,SandersForPresident
A recent poll showed Biden barely beating Bernie among democrats. Like  by 2 points. And even more recent poll showed Biden crushing Bernie but that was even more biased and misleading.,kutwijf,e834bwo,SandersForPresident
"That's pretty good for a college town. I want trying to throw shade. The angle of the pic just seemed, like you said, generous.",BERNthisMuthaDown,e83m8y4,SandersForPresident
Very cool.,BERNthisMuthaDown,e84zgl5,SandersForPresident
"Which one? ANd I think Bernie has a shot at winning the nom, but just thought ""crushing"" Biden would was a bit of exaggeration. I like the guy and he has the most presidential experience of anyone running. I'd be torn between Biden, Bernie, and Gillum (if he wins FL). ",its_not_Christmas,e830fij,SandersForPresident
"I hope this is correct, and think it probably is, but I can't help but worry.  Biden is currently the frontrunner in all projections, and while we may think Biden will fade, there is something to be said for being the frontrunner. The democrats made this mistake in 2016 by nominating Hillary, let's not put it past them to try to do the same with Biden in 2020. 

Biden would be a HUGE mistake for the dems. Many voters would refuse for vote for someone like Biden, opting to write in Bernie, vote 3rd party, or just not vote at all.  ",GodlessNotDogless,e83n9b4,SandersForPresident
He wasn't the beloved former VP back then. I think they're both too old anyways tbh,its_not_Christmas,e839p92,SandersForPresident
I don't think Biden would have a chance against Bernie tbh.,kutwijf,e834ene,SandersForPresident
"[CNN Poll - PDF](http://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2018/images/10/13/cnn.poll.ssrs.trump.biden.pdf) On page 7, turns out it was 45+ years old only. Seems to be the poll everyone is quoting this week but the sample is a joke.",Abif,e838e99,SandersForPresident
"Neither of them is too old, but 1 of them has garbage policies which disqualify him.",MelGibsonDerp,e839vwg,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, there’s only so far you can go on the strength of memes alone, in the Democratic Party anyway.",teuast,e834qyp,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e83avwr,SandersForPresident
"Biden's record on the Foreign Affairs Committee is horrendous.  He supported permanent occupation in Vietnam, Eastern Europe, the Middle East, South America, pretty much everywhere.  He was a leader in ushering in the neoliberal era, and even went to the right of Reagan and Bush on crime and drugs.

IDK, maybe his ""working class Joe"" schtick will fool the masses, but some of us know better.  He's a shill for IMF and the World Bank, he represented Delaware corporations well.  I think his best bet is to go fishing w/ Al Gore and keep his head down while he still has his reputation intact.  Politics has changed, you can fool most of the people in 1980 or 1990, but some of the people know better in 2018.",dannythetrucker,e83wxc4,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being in contention with community guidelines #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e83b3y7,SandersForPresident
"[RSVP](https://events.mobilizeamerica.io/dpw/event/63375/?fbclid=IwAR2tAUeZ-y5VX79FP0-D6mEPWY8WvuYgJqivK-sNebYU88b0RbP9_B3YYa4)

>Join Bernie Sanders in Milwaukee for a rally with Tammy Baldwin, Tony Evers, Mandela Barnes, Gwen Moore, and Randy Bryce!

>University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

>Wisconsin Room

>2200 East Kenwood Boulevard

>Milwaukee, WI 53211",gideonvwainwright,e8454ur,SandersForPresident
"Bernie Sanders is just the shit!

Which politicians are out there every day doing this?

Bernie.",xxoites,e845erd,SandersForPresident
My freaking president! 💜 ,adal3hn,e82xba0,SandersForPresident
"I don't think there are many other U.S. politicians who could actually excite such a large group of youth about voting/politics.

Great to see.",tropics_,e82rhrv,SandersForPresident
Bernie! ,wehaveengagedtheborg,e82vipc,SandersForPresident
"This is like the Beatles in 1964. If the youth turn out to vote (big if), he will be our next president.",MusicOfEricZann,e835hqj,SandersForPresident
"Are these the angry, savage youth Fox has been telling me about? ",TheMediocreCock,e83175c,SandersForPresident
"Welcoming Bernie in Palo Alto back in 2016, everyone was so happy. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7BLt7yEeq8&t=3s ",dittidot,e82y3zn,SandersForPresident
"This is called “Leading”. Let’s all remember what this looks like, and hold putative representatives to some version of this behaviour. ",BaronWombat,e83phdw,SandersForPresident
"Indiana 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://indianavoters.in.gov/PublicSite/Public/FT1/PublicLookupMain.aspx?Link=Polling): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e82xlkd,SandersForPresident
VOTE THOSE BUMS OUT!,runningray,e82zbap,SandersForPresident
"“He’s not the messiah, he’s a very naughty boy!”",sl150,e832g41,SandersForPresident
"This is a brilliant idea, and is what should have been done during 2016. After the rally is over, don't simply leave, go and lead everyone to a polling place, with enough donations, food and water can be supplied to everyone as they wait in line. This is way more effective than spending on ads and should be done going forward.",Zincoshine_2018,e83vulf,SandersForPresident
I was there today. It was a really amazing time. Took my 11-year old son so he could see it in person. Starting him young in realizing the need and power of voting. ,mtown4ever,e83stkl,SandersForPresident
"A presidential candidate must be able to inspire the youth like this. Without record shattering youth turnout, this country’s slide into fascism and tyranny will be complete. ",EwwTedCruz,e83xqcv,SandersForPresident
Birdie for president,Torcha,e83k7bi,SandersForPresident
Unfortunately he might not run since he’s old. I’m sure he’ll make his decision after the midterms,carminedg123,e84ywf3,SandersForPresident
He literally is Hope in human form ,whoknowsknowone,e82wfdq,SandersForPresident
There aren't many other high profile ones who would even let that many people get that close to them,theDarkAngle,e8347ia,SandersForPresident
I mean he literally saved someone's life the other day and doesn't brag about it. I'm pretty sure that's the definition of humble ,Torcha,e83k8zu,SandersForPresident
"I see no one besides Bernie doing this.

I mean Trump is driving people to the polls to defeat the Republicans, but as usual, Bernie is *leading.* :)",xxoites,e842jwt,SandersForPresident
"[Crowds swarm polls in record numbers for early voting in Georgia](https://www.wsbtv.com/news/local/cobb-county/more-than-250-000-people-swarm-polls-for-early-voting-in-georgia/855353900)

>Number of first day early votes in Georgia in 2014: 20,898

>Number of first day early votes in Georgia in 2018: 69,049

>That's more than triple the amount from last time, keep up the good work!

https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/9po6e1/crowds_swarm_polls_in_record_numbers_for_early/e8376cd/",xxoites,e842qfv,SandersForPresident
"Yes, also known as the anitfa Bernie Bro brigrade.  ",Misha80,e8358q0,SandersForPresident
Yes indeed and I am an elder member in good standing.,xxoites,e842rit,SandersForPresident
Would giving good and water away to voters in line be legal?,notagangsta,e83wevc,SandersForPresident
Good for you. :),xxoites,e842u3h,SandersForPresident
Bernie would never be comfortable keeping people at arm's length. That is just not him.,xxoites,e842l8o,SandersForPresident
"I love Bernie and will vote for him in 2020, but he just told some woman to get out of the street while texting. In DC pedestrians are almost an endangered species.",xxoites,e842n1v,SandersForPresident
"I hope so, I'm not too familiar with the US laws but it seems weird to me that giving food and water to someone would be a violation of the law.",Zincoshine_2018,e840qa0,SandersForPresident
If you are giving food or water to homeless people in some places in the US it actually is.,xxoites,e842tkv,SandersForPresident
I wasn’t sure if it would be considered a type of bribery. There are laws of what you can do or say to voters within a certain radius of the voting polls. ,notagangsta,e84prte,SandersForPresident
"New Jersey 2018 Election 

[General Election](http://www.njelections.org/voting-information-vote-by-mail.html): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e854i83,SandersForPresident
"I don't see a problem with multiple progressives running at least early on. Merkley, Gabbard, Warren, Sherrod Brown(Turner I get the sense would only run if Bernie wouldn't since she's always with him at his rallies). They could attack the other candidates so the stage doesn't turn into a ""everyone against Bernie"" debate. 

I'm quite confident Bernie would be the last one standing and they'd all endorse him early on.",The_Popular_Populist,e84jdnu,SandersForPresident
Better as Bernie VP  imho,WienerNuggetLog,e84ehtv,SandersForPresident
Her and Bernie teaming up would be a huge win!,supremexrising,e84g76m,SandersForPresident
"Hawaii 2018 Election 

[General Election Early Voting](https://elections.hawaii.gov/voters/early-voting/): October 23 - November 3, 2018 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://olvr.hawaii.gov/register.aspx): October 31, 2018 

[General Election](https://elections.hawaii.gov/wp-content/uploads/Voter-Registration-and-Permanent-Absentee-Application_Form-Fillable.pdf): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e8599wt,SandersForPresident
"Don't get me wrong, I'd be 100% onboard with her as President. But I think she needs to step up to Senator or Governor and stew a little longer. Then I think she's a guaranteed win in another 8 years. I think Warren is still better overall and I would lean Warren in primaries. ",lennybird,e84s461,SandersForPresident
"oh I'm sorry but people who vote to spend trillions on the war machine are not progressive... only Tulsi and Bernie are against war. 

Sorry I don't mean to be rude but I was very sad when every single dem senator voted to spend 600 billion on war... when we just did that. Thank you for giving me hope for Bernie",4now5now6now,e85o4vi,SandersForPresident
"the vp should be able to excite swing state minority voters, so i don't know if she would do that. (she would be amazing as vp, but she might not be the best strategic choice).",Surporat,e84nxjm,SandersForPresident
Sec of state,BopTheDrass,e84yiti,SandersForPresident
The VP has zero political power.  ,RandomThoughtHere,e84umac,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e84h8rx,SandersForPresident
"Bernie in primaries, he has the same policies as Warren, actually probably more progressive because he consistently votes against military increases, and he is more appealing to Trump voters due to his reachout to them.

Ex: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3rC3FjRZzEM",meatduck12,e85elxo,SandersForPresident
"But it has, in the past, been a launching platform for the presidency. Bush I, almost Gore, and a bunch more in the past",WienerNuggetLog,e84xeq1,SandersForPresident
The VP can break ties in the Senate. Pence has already done that on several crucial votes. That’s a lot more power than a Representative from Hawaii has. It’s also much easier to run for President and the sitting Vice President than as a Congresswoman.,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85wuri,SandersForPresident
Name checks out,S3lvah,e84s03u,SandersForPresident
"For Democrats, the VP only really takes over once the President has died (Truman, LBJ). They tend to lose when the run themselves (Humphrey, Mondale, Gore). You're more likely to see Republican VPs win the Presidency (Nixon, Bush).",pablonieve,e84xqa1,SandersForPresident
Bernie nor the climate has this sort of time. ,RandomThoughtHere,e85wskf,SandersForPresident
">The VP can break ties in the Senate.

Is that really the power you'd be happy with Bernie brandishing? Breaking tie votes?  Our climate is completely fucked and even his extreme legislation will probably not save our children.  His anti-war policy will only stave off third world destruction whilst the big one awaits and yet you'd say his positions are suitable for just in case scenarios meanwhile we drill and bomb...",RandomThoughtHere,e85xaku,SandersForPresident
"Sorry, I mean gabbard as Bernie's VP. Not Bernie as the vp. Bernie gets to be the boss",WienerNuggetLog,e868p6p,SandersForPresident
"Well, first of all, Tulsi, not Bernie, would be “brandishing” that power. If the incompetent Democrats fail to win a large enough majority to overcome right wingers like Manchin from voting against them, ties will need to be broken.
> Our climate is completely fucked

Which is why we can’t just roll over and let the GOP continue to block every effort to reverse our environmental destruction.

> His anti-war policy will only stave off third world destruction whilst the big one awaits and yet you'd say his positions are suitable for just in case scenarios meanwhile we drill and bomb...

What?",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85xgdy,SandersForPresident
"First off schmirst off calm down. We're on the same page.  I failed to take into context Tulsi being the president and in that case... fuck yeah. But in all honesty thats too good to be true. I know crazier things have happened but mainstream politics (as in media mainstream) will never allow such a thing. 

As for the second part, I was basically saying he wants to end our proxy wars all whilst the US is posturing for another big one against a major power. 
",RandomThoughtHere,e85xtaz,SandersForPresident
"I really want you to properly flesh out this second point, because I still don’t quite get what your critique is. Do you think that it’s bad that Bernie is anti-war?",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85y3mp,SandersForPresident
"The U.S. is tacitly/explicitly supporting/causing wars in the middle east. Pulling out of those *wars* is difficult enough. Meanwhile, there is a very real possibility of war with Russia. i.e.. climate change and the opening of the Arctic and how that well be handled. War used to *solve problems*, but on this scale, it will just kill everyone.... I am anti-war.",RandomThoughtHere,e85yjjo,SandersForPresident
"You said

> His anti-war policy will only stave off third world destruction whilst the big one awaits and yet you'd say his positions are suitable for just in case scenarios

I’m trying to understand what policies you think he needs to change in order to prevent “the big one.”",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e868ka1,SandersForPresident
"So, to clarify, the idea is that if a personally wealthy candidate gives their own campaign a million dollars, their competitors all get to exceed the normal contribution limits?",WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85x2ag,SandersForPresident
Voted no on it ... Agree it's not a solution to the problem and just lessens the importance of those who can only donate small amounts.,Invient,e86nsqq,SandersForPresident
r/Colorado,yofoalexillo,e8o1r6o,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, this seems to be the idea. Weird way to level the playing field, if the newly leveled playing field only helps candidates that would already otherwise have big campaign contributions.",Booty_Bumping,e85xrrt,SandersForPresident
"actually the wording doesn't exclude the self donor. ALL parties get to exceed normal contribution limits if one does. so if the self-donating millionaire also has millionaire friends, then his friends can now also donate more.",Minhtyfresh00,e8gover,SandersForPresident
Definitely a strange idea. Wouldn’t it be better to just prevent millionaires from pumping money into their own campaigns?,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e85y07h,SandersForPresident
Wow. That’s really not going to do any good.,WhoAteMyPasghetti,e8grqse,SandersForPresident
"You can tell how scarred the establishment is by how many hit pieces they make per week, just wait until he actually starts running ",HIGH_ENERGY-VOTER,e84oqyl,SandersForPresident
Which is why Politico supports Biden...,BopTheDrass,e84yoim,SandersForPresident
"They are divisive character assassins.  

>[Character assassination](https://jezebel.com/the-demonization-of-linda-sarsour-1797537513  ). What a wonderful idea. Ordinary assassination only works once, but this one works every day.

― Terry Pratchett, The Truth   

Bernie quote:  

>""I don't know what will happen. Of course, I speak to Elizabeth almost every day ... We will see what happens.”  

Politico headline:  

>Sanders hints at reckoning with Warren over 2020 ambitions",Chartis,e858m8t,SandersForPresident
"Even their ['pro-Bernie' headlined pieces](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/10/19/bernie-sanders-2020-916368) are used to twist opinions.

---

On separate topics of his health and his age:  

>I am very happy that – and I thank God for this, I’m very lucky – I’m very blessed with my health … I literally cannot remember the last time I missed a day because of illness. I’ve been sick, but I go to work.  

-Bernie  

>[I have few doubts about his physical stamina.](https://inthesetimes.com/article/21419/bernie-sanders-2020-presidential-election-endorse) There’s no sign of any decline in his mental faculties. In the worst case, vice presidents—especially well chosen, ideologically wellmatched vice presidents—provide a safeguard.
 
There's attacks against him because of his age, but not because of his health.  

>If all of us are blessed to live long enough one day we will be 70, 80, 90 and how would we feel if somebody was discriminating against us based on our age? So that just really gets to me, not just because it's Senator Sanders but there's a whole generation of elders out there who have given so much and have so much left to give. That people just tolerate ageism bothers me a lot...  

-Nina Turner, [Nov 28^th](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AeMPjk2y91g&feature=youtu.be&t=392)   

>He's vibrant, he's capable, he's determined.

-[Jeff Merkley](http://freebeacon.com/politics/dem-senator-brushes-aside-concerns-bernies-age-2020-vibrant-capable-determined/)

It's hard to keep up with his schedule, both as a Senator and as leader of a national movement to revitalize American democracy.",Chartis,e84oqtr,SandersForPresident
">Your job is to sit down with people who say their vote doesn't matter... No more complaining. No more despair. Now is the time to stand up, fight back, & vote.  

>I understand why many of you voted for Donald Trump:  

>* You're hurting financially
>* You're working longer hours for lower wages  
>* You're worried about your kids
>* You're worried about your jobs leaving this country  

>In Donald Trump we have a President who is a pathological liar.  

---  

>99% of the scientists who study the climate understand that climate change is:  

>* real
>* caused by human activity  
>* causing devastating problems in the United States in and all over the world  

>Transform our energy system away from fossil fuel and make massive cuts in carbon in the atmosphere: If we do not do that is 12 years the planet will suffer irreparable harm.  

---  

>You are living in the wealthiest country in the history of the World. There is no rational reason why all American's don't have a decent standard of living...  

>My discussions with parents in Flint, and what they have seen, have been the most painful and heart-rending discussions I have ever experienced. My wife had to walk out of the room.  

---  

>We have a criminal justice system which is broken and which is racist.   

>* We have more people in jail than any other nation on Earth including China, which is much so larger than we are and happens to be an authoritarian society. 
>* The people who are imprisoned are disproportionately African American, Latino, & Native American. 
>* The so-called 'War on Drugs' has been an abysmal failure which has ruined many, many lives.  

edit: [19:10](https://youtu.be/yvP_WhnStiM?t=1151)  

>Instead of giving criminal records to people who possess marijuana, maybe we should have given criminal records to the crooks on Wall Street who destroyed our economy.  

---  

>80% of the American people believe that the almost 2 million people in or eligible for the DACA program should have legal protection.  
>We have got to move to comprehensive immigration reform and a path towards citizenship.  

---  

>Forget the words that came out of Trump's mouth. They're not worth anything... they are going to come back and cut:  

>* Social Security
>* Medicare
>* Medicaid  

>Mitch McConnell made that very clear just the other day...  
>I say the time is now to expand & extend Social Security!   

---  

>We should not be living in a nation where:  

>* 3 people own more wealth than the bottom 1/2 of the American people
>* The top 0.1% own more wealth than the bottom 90%  
>* Over 40% of new income is going to the top 1%  

>This campaign has very much to do with values: Who we are as Americans... Are we comfortable with a President who is trying to divide us up? We are one people, one nation...  

---  

>The most important mid-term election in the modern history of our country. It is an election that is about:  

>* if we have a government that represents all people  
>* people who bring us together  
>* not accepting somebody who is a pathological liar  

>Incredibly brave people throughout our country's history have fought and died to protect democracy & our way of life. The essence of our way of life in a democracy is about:  

>* We vote and hold accountable the people we elect.  

>Do not turn your back on those heroes & heroines who have died to defend democracy. You have a moral responsibility to participate in the democratic way of life. You have got to:  

>* Come out and vote on November 6^th
>* Do everything you can to bring out as many people as possible.  

>Thank you all very much.  


-Bernie Sanders, Oct 19^th '18",Chartis,e83tsg0,SandersForPresident
why maybe tho?,thesilverpig,e83whlj,SandersForPresident
">Strong progressives are winning elections all over this country... There is a waking up among the American people. A desire to move in a very different direction. A disgust with oligarchy. This country, despite Donald Trump, is going to have a very bright future.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Sept 23^rd '18](https://youtu.be/O820i91dp1w?t=3966)  

---

October 19 | Bloomington IN - [Liz Watson](https://lizforindiana.com)  
October 19 | Ann Arbor MI - [Gretchen Whitmer](https://www.gretchenwhitmer.com)  
October 20 | Columbia SC - [Medicare For All](https://www.postandcourier.com/politics/bernie-sanders-will-headline-south-carolina-rally-later-this-month/article_01189a68-cccd-11e8-9a75-f38ff0bed96f.html)    
Oct 20 & 21| Sioux City/Fort Dodge/Ames IA - [J.D. Scholten](https://www.scholten4iowa.com)  
October 22 | Bernie Rallies: Kenosha WI - [Randy Bryce](https://www.randybryceforcongress.com/)  
October 22 | Milwaukee WI - [Tammy Baldwin](https://www.baldwin.senate.gov)  
October 23 | Tuscon & Tempe AZ - [David Garcia](https://dg4az.com)  
October 24 | Boulder & Fort Collins CO - [Jared Polis](https://polisforcolorado.com)  
October 25 | Reno/Las Vegas NV - [Jacky Rosen](https://www.rosenfornevada.com)  
Oct 26 & 27| La Jolla/Oakland/San Diego CA - [Barbara Lee](http://www.barbaraleeforcongress.org), [Ammar Campa-Najjar](https://www.campacampaign.com), & [Mike Levin](https://mikelevin.org)  
October 29 | Colchester VT - Bernie On: [Senate Debate & Election Forum](https://vtdigger.org/2018/10/09/sanders-plans-9-state-tour-ahead-midterm-elections/)  

[Itinerary](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/2018/10/18/our-revolution-president-nina-turner-join-sen-bernie-sanders-rally-progressive)


  

Selected highlights from other stops:",Chartis,e83tsue,SandersForPresident
">When you hear Paul Ryan and other talk about ""entitlement reform"" hang on to your wallets folks, they mean drastic cuts to Social Security, Medicare, & Medicaid.  

>""Chained CPI"" it means the Cost Of Living Allowances that seniors now get (which are scarce and limited), they want to cut them back even further. Or they want to raise the retirement age for Medicare.   

>How do you stay warm in the winter? How do you feed yourself? How do you pay for the medicine that you need on $13,000 a year? You can't do it. And that's why we're going to expand benefits for lower income seniors by lifting that cap on Social Security Taxes.  

---  

>Right now all over the world the exact same medicine sold in the United States is sold for a fraction of the price.  

>The reason for that is over the last 20 years the pharmaceutical industry has spent over $4,000,000,000 in lobbying & campaign contributions.  

>In California for 1 ballot item they spent $131,000,000. Meanwhile 1 out of 5 Americans cannot afford the medicine that they need, and many seniors cut their pills in half.  

>1. Have Medicare start negotiating prices  
>2. Give Americans the opportunity to start purchasing safe medicine from aboard  
>3. Members of Congress who are much more interested in getting campaign contributions from the pharmaceutical & insurance companies than protecting the needs of working Americans. That has got to change.  

>Do everything you can in the next 2 weeks  

---  

[48:32]( https://youtu.be/4cuJFFlayb0?t=2912)  
>On virtually every single issue that's out there:  

>* Campaign finance reform, stopping billionaires from buying elections  
>* Voter suppression  
>* Medicare For All... 70% of the American people want Medicare For All  
>* A living wage
>* Pay equity for women  
>* Criminal justice reform  
>* Immigration reform  
>* Transforming our energy system away from fossil fuels  
>* Gun safety legislation  

>We have the American people behind us.  

>Voter turnout was embarrassingly and abysmally low... that is what right-wing Republicans &their  billionaire sponsors want. They want to buy elections and make sure that:  

>* working people  
>* young people  
>* people of color  

>are not voting. **This November 6^th we've got to turn all that around!**  

>A lot of ugly, lying TV ads going on all over this country. But at the end of the day if we:  

>* stand up
>* fight back
>* come out to vote  

>Liz & some great people all over this country are going to win. We're going to begin the process of transforming this country.  

>Thank you all.  

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4cuJFFlayb0&feature=youtu.be&t=645)  ",Chartis,e83tt5d,SandersForPresident
">...play a monumental role in the future of this country. My Republicans colleagues want people not to vote.  

>each and every one of you goes out and brings out 2 other friends or family members... that's what ya got to do.    

>brave people throughout our history have fought and died to defend American democracy. We are not going to turn our backs on those heroes & heroines. The essence of democracy is citizen participation.    

>* somebody works 40 hours a week, they should not live in poverty  
>* equal pay for equal work  
>* make public colleges & universities tuition free  
>* lower student debt
>* rebuild our crumbling infrastructure with well paid union labor  
>* health care is a right... we are going to lower the cost of health care for the American people & the business community through Medicare For All     

---  

>This cowardly President:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to Social Security  
>* is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* bows down to Putin 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* gave tax breaks to the rich  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have  
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner  

>For hundreds of year what we have seen are brave & courageous people standing up and saying NO! We are going to:

>* oppose slavery  
>* discrimination  
>* not allow women to be seen as 2^nd class citizens  
>* not be prejudice against people in the gay community   
>* not going to be religious bigots  

>For years & years we have been winning that struggle for democracy, becoming a less discriminatory society... we are going forwards!  

>In this great country of ours, in the United States of America, we are not going to:  

>* have more income & wealth inequality than any other country
>* tolerate discrimination  
>* not guarantee health care to all people  

>This is a great nation! We are proud of this nation!  

>Okay kid, all yours.

-Bernie Sanders, [Oct 19^th '18](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOB-6n63N6Y&feature=youtu.be&t=583)
",Chartis,e83tu7k,SandersForPresident
jesus that is nearly a million voters. the midterms are showing up a serious democracy crisis. I would really like the UN to send electoral observers to the US... although can you imagine the rightwing uproar,silvertui,e83yncc,SandersForPresident
"That is odd. I just switched my registration from Colorado to Tennessee but I still got my Colorado ballot. 

Looks like I was rightfully ""purged"" though. ",Lefaid,e837pxx,SandersForPresident
"[Voter Registration Deadlines](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/10/7/17947768/voter-registration-deadline-verify-2018-midterms)  

[Alabama:](https://sos.alabama.gov/alabama-votes/voter/register-to-vote) October 22  
[California:](https://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/voter-registration/) October 22. From October 23 to the day of the election, residents can still register at an election office and vote with a provisional ballot.  
[South Dakota:](https://sdsos.gov/elections-voting/voting/register-to-vote/default.aspx) October 22  

---  

[Nebraska:](https://www.nebraska.gov/apps-sos-voter-registration/) October 26  

---  

[Washington:](https://www.sos.wa.gov/elections/register.aspx) October 29  

---  

[North Carolina:](https://www.ncsbe.gov/Voters/Registering-to-vote) From October 17-November 3, residents can register and vote at the same time.  

---  

[Colorado:](https://www.sos.state.co.us/voter/pages/pub/olvr/findVoterReg.xhtml) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Connecticut:](https://voterregistration.ct.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Washington, DC:](https://www.dcboe.org/Voters/Register-To-Vote/Check-Voter-Registration-Status) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Hawaii:](https://elections.hawaii.gov/frequently-asked-questions/online-voter-registration/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Idaho:](https://apps.idahovotes.gov/OnlineVoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Illinois:](https://www.elections.il.gov/votinginformation/register.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Iowa:](https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/voterinformation/voterregistration.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Maine:](https://www.maine.gov/sos/cec/elec/voter-info/votreg.html) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Minnesota:](https://www.sos.state.mn.us/elections-voting/register-to-vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Montana:](https://sosmt.gov/elections/vote/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[New Hampshire:](http://sos.nh.gov/HowRegVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Utah:](http://voter.utah.gov/) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Vermont:](https://www.sec.state.vt.us/elections/voters/registration.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wisconsin:](http://myvote.wi.gov/en-US/VoterRegistration) November 6 (Election Day)  
[Wyoming:](https://soswy.state.wy.us/Elections/RegisteringToVote.aspx) November 6 (Election Day)  
  
---

[North Dakota:](https://vip.sos.nd.gov/) None — just bring ID  

",Chartis,e833daz,SandersForPresident
"Colorado 2018 Election 

[General Election Registration Deadline](https://www.sos.state.co.us/voter/pages/pub/olvr/verifyNewVoter.xhtml): November 6, 2018 

[General Election](https://www.sos.state.co.us/pubs/elections/vote/VoterHome.html): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e838z5i,SandersForPresident
"> although can you imagine the rightwing uproar

So what, they're always in uproar, there seriously needs to be some international check on anti-democracy politicians in the US who infringe on peoples right to vote.",BopTheDrass,e84yl01,SandersForPresident
Better yet every state should just do vote by mail or dropboxes. Give everyone weeks to vote rather than hours. ,yeahsureYnot,e83b3oc,SandersForPresident
"That's the best method. National Holiday doesn't mean shit for the majority of regular people, they can be forced to work it or lose their job. ",KolbyKolbyKolby,e83dl3s,SandersForPresident
">Where: UAW Local 72 Union Hall, 3615 Washington Rd, Kenosha, WI 53144

>When: Monday, October 22, 2018, 1:15pm CT

>Space is limited. This event is free to attend but registration is required. Please RSVP here. https://actionnetwork.org/forms/rally-with-bernie-sanders-randy-bryce-and-wisconsin-working-families-party-in-kenosha?source=wf
",gideonvwainwright,e845pb7,SandersForPresident
"It doesn't.

Here are the disqualifying aspects for President:

1. Bad policy positions

2. Accepting large sums from Corporate PACs and ""totally not coordinating *wink wink*"" with Super PACs

That's it.

If you pass those 2 checks then you deserve to have a shot at the Presidency.

It doesn't matter if you are a certain age, gender, sexual orientation, or creed. Identity politics does not work.",MelGibsonDerp,e83a1nu,SandersForPresident
"He’s less than 5 years older than Trump.  Carter and Bush Sr are still alive and 94!

Bernie deserves this more than anyone from my viewpoint.  I think it’s all up to the DNC accepting him this time instead of cheating.",AnakinAmidala,e846ycw,SandersForPresident
Finally someone has a brain,sasiralla,e8405vv,SandersForPresident
Don’t worry about irrelevant ad hominem attacks,alejour,e838zp5,SandersForPresident
The Hill is at least trying to get rid of *some* hypocrisy for when they inevitably endorse Biden.,BopTheDrass,e84bpl2,SandersForPresident
"Please Fight Back! Want to support Dems down the ballot, but too anxious to knock doors or call people? Hide behind text! Join the [Open Progress](https://www.openprogress.com/text-troop/) texting team to Get Out The Vote for Democrats across the country! They have great support, scripts and a simple system that never uses your phone/phone number. Help!",KirsaMint,e83n0n0,SandersForPresident
3. Being a total idiot. (Like the current prez.),Clavo_PR,e83o31n,SandersForPresident
Always strikes me how generally fun and kind the people at his stuff look. ,Andy1816,e82qfzx,SandersForPresident
I love this man.  He’s an inspiration for many generations to come.  ,somecallmemike,e82zqwx,SandersForPresident
"Stuff like this conflicts me on him running in 2020:

I want him to run because he can take a punch and people generally view him as honest and trustworthy **even when they vehemently disagree with him**. I don't want him to run because I think the movement he's built is at risk of teetering over into a cult of personality rather than a movement about getting people active in the process. He is doing far greater work at getting his base to rally around local candidates all over the country, and I think having someone like Bernie running all over the country backing a Democrat he truly believes in while he whips up support for the local and statewide elections could be what actually sets off the political revolution. 

(But if he runs in 2020 I'll eat those words and do everything I can to elect him.)",sheepsleepdeep,e82qym3,SandersForPresident
"[@fromernestdesk:](https://twitter.com/fromernestdesk/status/1053317309949980672)  

* Crowd walking with Bernie Sanders  and Liz Watson down Seventh Street to Election Central. [vid in tweet]",Chartis,e82of1a,SandersForPresident
"What other politician has this kind of support, huh? What a legend!",paperboyjess,e842k4k,SandersForPresident
"Indiana 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://indianavoters.in.gov/PublicSite/Public/FT1/PublicLookupMain.aspx?Link=Polling): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e82zvs4,SandersForPresident
"And dumbass Hillbots and republicans say he's too old to be president.

Remember when Clinton [couldn't even stand up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iAWaT9AwMjQ) on the campaign?",flickerkuu,e82tuu4,SandersForPresident
Subliminal Starbucks advertising. ,BAClaridge,e83vbce,SandersForPresident
Crying? Seriously? Come on.,LesCactus,e82tbhs,SandersForPresident
You ever seen a pic of Bernie in a bathing suit?  He looks like he’s in better shape than most 30 year olds.,somecallmemike,e82zy6d,SandersForPresident
"I agree, for more on the topic: https://thehill.com/opinion/white-house/412262-bernie-sanders-age-should-not-disqualify-him-in-2020",Chartis,e830mwm,SandersForPresident
"I speak for everyone when I say ""just run"". Instant front runner, superdelegates might actually have learned to stop their right wing antics. Voila the next president!",WienerNuggetLog,e83mkfb,SandersForPresident
Lol they can’t even cheat him this time. ,SnuggleBaer,e84pz76,SandersForPresident
That's great. Really excited for it to trickle on down. ,filmantopia,e84lnp1,SandersForPresident
Start and keep electing honest leaders like Bernie.  He catches a lot of crap from all sides but he’s right most of the time.,Bthejerk,e816ad3,SandersForPresident
">Climate change is the single greatest threat facing our planet. On November 6th, we must show up at the polls from coast to coast, and stand with candidates who are willing and ready to take on the fossil fuel billionaires, accelerate our transition to clean energy, and finally put people before the profits of polluters.

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/videos/329363120948326/)  

>We are in crisis mode and we have the Trump administration that virtually does not even recognize the reality of climate change. We have 12 years to substantially cut the amount of carbon in our atmosphere, or this planet, our country, the rest of the world, is going to suffer irreversible damage. The policies of the Trump administration are making a bad situation worse.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1970219663033028)  




>Sorry, Mr. President, but someone who refuses to believe what 99% of climate scientists agree on—that climate change is real and is caused by human activity—does not exactly have a ""natural instinct"" for science. We need a president who listens to the scientific community and takes real action to address climate change, not one who ignores facts that are inconvenient to him and his fossil fuel executive friends.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157389631127908)  

>Trump's top economic advisor just dismissed a devastating climate change report from the United Nations. What Trump, his administration and his fossil fuel executive friends are doing to the planet is criminal.

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/videos/287384315206042/)  

>If we are going successfully combat climate change, we have no choice but to take on the greed of the fossil fuel industry which is driving this crisis—as well as the politicians who have been bought off and refuse to do anything to address it.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157382668612908)  ",Chartis,e81fzzr,SandersForPresident
We gotta fight climate change like we fought the Nazis. It’s time for a radical shift away from fossil fuels. ,Seanarchist,e81lqpb,SandersForPresident
"Any senator that opposes this legislation is voting against the survival of humanity, and should be publicly regarded as such.",Infinite_Derp,e81mwsr,SandersForPresident
He is definitely right about the need to act but I can't see anything happening unless there is a big change in November.,Graymouzer,e81fgky,SandersForPresident
"Just saw Bernie at Indiana University, and I can say ya boi looks presidential af",Jmart1ni,e82kzul,SandersForPresident
It won’t pass unless we get some honest people into the Senate.,Multicultural_Potato,e82l1or,SandersForPresident
"Thank you Bernie!

Very pleased to see this.  I feel like a lot of the news cycle focuses on Trump being a jerk, what he is tweeting, the whole Brett Kavanaugh confirmation, etc.  These things pale in comparison to the global pollution crisis.  We need to elect leaders who take this issue seriously and will take action.  Trump will be gone in 2 years.  The harm that we have caused the planet - and continue to cause - will have lasting effects far beyond Donald Trump’s lifetime.

Vote if you are eligible.  Call your Congressional Representative and Senators and tell them this is important to you.  Please, don’t do nothing.

",HoodieEnthusiast,e82ipru,SandersForPresident
Wish he was President ,splugemuffin1,e82ond5,SandersForPresident
"We were so close to getting Sanders in 2016 and even Gore in 2000. Please let 2020 be the year for a climate/environment focused president. We need it, even if half the country doesn't know it.",KosmicMicrowave,e81tdnb,SandersForPresident
"Imagine if our government was filled with people like Bernie... not even his political views, but just people who genuinely want to make the world a better place and aren't corrupt",abcde123edcba,e81uiuy,SandersForPresident
"Want to support Dems down the ballot, but too anxious to knock doors or call people? Hide behind text! Join the [Open Progress](https://www.openprogress.com/text-troop/) texting team to Get Out The Vote for Democrats across the country! They have great support, scripts and a simple system that never uses your phone/phone number. Help!",KirsaMint,e82lrf8,SandersForPresident
"Yes, thank-you Bernie! ",kutwijf,e83387l,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82daeb,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82eblf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82f0fu,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82g2e7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82g5tw,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82hlv7,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82hmaf,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82i9xy,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82ia8z,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82in0y,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82nmwf,SandersForPresident
"US Senate and House both taken by Dems this November. However, Dems don't have super majority to over turn veto. Bill passes but gets veto'd by Trump, vote to overturn veto fails. Bill dies.",Legal_Refuse,e82oxkf,SandersForPresident
"Meta Question: I voted for Bernie 20 years ago because I liked his message and independence. But, I don't think he'd be a good president. Basically, I like him because he's uncompromising and presidents can't afford to be uncompromising. Is this opinion welcome in this sub or do you guys prefer contributors who want to elect Bernie as President?",spinlock,e82s3wd,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e823ukj,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82jxn1,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82ld1e,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82pjpb,SandersForPresident
Burnie  sandals for the win,Kasmaniac,e821cem,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e81ssms,SandersForPresident
"I disagree.

When was he wrong?",xxoites,e81mpn6,SandersForPresident
"Honest?? Are you serious?? Friend, you didn't just drink the Kool-aid, you're shit faced drunk on the stuff. 🙄",TKnTD,e81zxrn,SandersForPresident
"Who else wants to see a carbon Moon Shot?

> We will cut carbon emissions to zero by the end of the next decade.

We don't have a cold war to win but whoever owns zero carbon technology wins the economy.",spinlock,e82sq7l,SandersForPresident
"How about a 200% gas tax.

Edit: was half sarcasm",Treyzania,e82fjjj,SandersForPresident
Hear hear,parksandwreck,e82x6e8,SandersForPresident
I know we’re only counting on a couple or maybe a few seats changing hands in the senate but god I hope it’s enough to turn the majority. I’m fairly confident though that with the amount of people and especially young people registering for the midterms this year that we will be able to turn the house.,Csharp27,e81fsfe,SandersForPresident
"Or possibly the weather...

If there isn't a big change in November then we didn't do our duty and vote.

Vote.",xxoites,e81msbv,SandersForPresident
Fake news is going to be the death of the country! ,pedantic--asshole,e83zcad,SandersForPresident
We got Gore but SCOTUS stole the election.,shadow1515,e81woa2,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e82edz9,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82dpkd,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82en11,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1,2,&7. Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82f6m3,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82geww,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82gi7f,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82hzeq,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82i093,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being too hostile (Rule 1) and trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82ibb1,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82ib0m,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.
",Chartis,e82j0a8,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guideline #2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82nyz6,SandersForPresident
Name on the door says Sanders For President. That'd do it.,Chartis,e82p5yp,SandersForPresident
"We prefer contributors who want to elect Bernie as President.

",Chartis,e82sl25,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82iilv,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82lgs6,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82ox31,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for being on contention with community guidelines #1&2. Other comments nearby may also be removed. Read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting. If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Replies here will be removed.",Chartis,e82ppn1,SandersForPresident
"This is being removed because it does not make a good-faith attempt to contribute to a discussion which advances progressive issues/policies; does not provide a context, content, or actionable ideas; or is unproductive and off-topic for this subreddit which is focused on news and discussion about Bernie Sanders, his policies, and progressive politics in the United States (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82ipa1,SandersForPresident
I love him but no one is perfect. ,Bthejerk,e81mrma,SandersForPresident
"I think his stance on GMO labeling is misguided. Over 30 years of research have shown there is no more risk in eating a GMO vs. its non-GMO counterpart. Labeling every product that contains GMOs would, I think, increase fear and misunderstanding of technology that has been in use for years and has the potential to feed the growing global population.

Ultimately it boils down to a lack of basic science education, but we can only do so much about that presently. Let's not instill more fear where there should be none.",fruticose-foliose,e829zo9,SandersForPresident
"sesta/fosta

&#x200B;

he doesnt like when people disturbe elected officials

&#x200B;

hes had some issues with isreal for a while now. ",revolutionhascome,e823osi,SandersForPresident
Israel,salothsarus,e828fan,SandersForPresident
"I mean, I don't like his stance on guns and ""free"" college.  I fucking love him on pretty much everything else I've seen from him though.  Especially healthcare and climate change.  

EDIT: One step out of sync with you guys and you turn pretty fast.  Remember this in November as you drive all the moderates away.",OhFuckNoDude,e81pu3s,SandersForPresident
"""I'm running for president""",SuperNerd6527,e821d5b,SandersForPresident
>Emojis will help people take me seriously,pyrowolf8,e82tmyk,SandersForPresident
The problem with gas tax is that it hurts the average consumer. There is absolutely no reason to punish the average working class family in America. I’m more in favor of keeping the subsidies and tax breaks of renewable energy and electric cars,carminedg123,e82ir36,SandersForPresident
"We just need a carbon tax. That's what the Nobel Prize in Economics was just awarded for.

If people who emit carbon pay a tax that is equivalent to the cost of climate change, we will stop changing the climate. Right now, that cost is externalized so you get to change the climate for free. Once you make people pay a price for changing the climate, they'll stop doing it.

Who know people love money more than they love destroying the earth?",spinlock,e82t0db,SandersForPresident
"Absolutely not. A very high carbon tax is a good idea, but just taxing gas at the pump only robs the most vulnerable. Its pretty much the most regressive tax I can think of. 

I was thinking something like, 100% renewable electricity by 2030. Ban all new car sales that are not electric by 2030. State built Ev charging stations like we’re building tanks for the end of the world. I do think a meat tax would be a good place to start there. And reforestation at an enormous level. 
",Seanarchist,e83ossn,SandersForPresident
">If we increase voter turnout this midterm election from just 36% to 50%, we can change the direction of this country and elect progressives everywhere.  

-[Bernie](https://twitter.com/BernieSanders/status/1052365959065980928) 

>We are in a pivotal moment in American history, and the election on November 6th will determine, to a very significant degree, the future direction of our country. Now is the time to get involved, to register friends, family and colleagues to vote, and to help shape the future of our country in a progressive direction.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1970697046318623)",Chartis,e81g8da,SandersForPresident
Right now it's looking like the Reps increasing by one seat is the best case scenario.,pablonieve,e81hfv5,SandersForPresident
"Your comment has been removed for trolling (Rule 2). Other comments nearby may also be removed.

Please refrain from further comments of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar comment.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",GrandpaChainz,e82ills,SandersForPresident
"Per rule 2:

>You can disagree, but you can't only disagree.",GrandpaChainz,e82yndy,SandersForPresident
That’s too bad. ,spinlock,e82zzcm,SandersForPresident
"It is an honest question. Do you know if and when he was wrong?

Because I can't come up with a thing.

There must be *something*...",xxoites,e81n2ka,SandersForPresident
"Thing is, it’s substantially easier to show that an existing substance doesn’t have any adverse consequences than it is to show that no substances now or in the future will ever be problematic. We have the right to know what we’re putting in our body, regardless of whether or not it’s going to cause problems. ",Complaingeleno,e82ogrh,SandersForPresident
"""New and improved!  Now with GMO!""

Just gotta apply the spin correctly...",j_from_cali,e82o96u,SandersForPresident
"The problem that I have with GMOs is that the seeds are sterile and that makes farmers dependent on the source of the seeds.

Perhaps this was also on Bernie's mind.",xxoites,e83a1rv,SandersForPresident
"GMO is wrong, not because of the health risks directly, but the power it holds over the industry and in effect holds it to ransom. I think it’s a positive step towards stamping out disease etc. But when the industry creates a market that is engineered to create demand of their product (similar to the made to break model for lightbulbs) it brings out an ugly side which is built around money not health.",the-10-coDAMments,e82ojt9,SandersForPresident
what fear is there in just labeling what you’re eating? it’s a labeling law not a ban,paulderev,e83gp6d,SandersForPresident
What's wrong with free college?,IsupportLGBT_nohomo,e81spkh,SandersForPresident
"What do you have against free education?

His plan is to pay for it with a very low tax on stock market transactions.

Less than half of one percent.

Would that cost you any money?",xxoites,e81zx1n,SandersForPresident
"I understand the logic you outlined that led you to conclude universally-available college would lead to it becoming expected from all job seekers and thus another universal barrier of entry. The thing is though that *this has already happened* in many fields (not yours, it sounds like; some trade-type fields are the exceptions to this trend), and the current effect is people who can’t afford a degree are blocked from those fields. Seems like making it free for those folks would solve much more of a problem than it would cause. 

I encourage you to look at and read about how it’s actually  shaken out in countries with free/merit-based college educations, this will assuage your fears.",realistidealist,e82k7wy,SandersForPresident
🤷🏻‍♀️,TKnTD,e82uk84,SandersForPresident
[deleted],,e82mmqz,SandersForPresident
Restrict it to cities and other areas with public transport and use that to fund better (greener) public transit.,Treyzania,e82p2k7,SandersForPresident
[pigovian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigovian_tax) remittance to everyone. Cap and dividend.,mandy009,e846kje,SandersForPresident
"You never know, polls don’t tell the whole story.",Csharp27,e81iu97,SandersForPresident
SESTA/FOSTA,lachumproyale1210,e81nrf2,SandersForPresident
"While he's always been against anti-gay legislation, he hasn't always been pro-gay marriage. He only openly started supporting gay marriage in 2009, while before when asked he always pointed to the states right to choose. As a gay man who was very enthusiastic for bernie, this the one slight I personally have against him. But since it's still entirely understandable his formal position changed over time instead of always saying yes gay marriage all the time, and because of his history and other actions, I admit it's the only slight I could personally see. 
http://amp.timeinc.net/time/4089946/bernie-sanders-gay-marriage",brkn613,e826wou,SandersForPresident
"He could have been a bit stronger on the gun control debate, but honestly that’s just a tiny nitpick. He’s been right a lot. As a movement though, we really shouldn’t idolize our leaders. They’re just people at the end of the day. I think if we treat Bernie like he’s infallible, we’ll look just like blind supporters. Like those who worship the president and those who support their dictators.",H-E-L-L-M-O,e8252vz,SandersForPresident
"So go look it up for yourself if you are so interested, don't force companies to put irrelevant information on their packaging that has been shown to scare people away from the products unnecessarily, leading the market towards more expensive ""GMO free"" options which makes it more difficult for families to get cheap, safe, and nutritious food.  All because you are too lazy to do some research for yourself before going to the grocery store. ",pedantic--asshole,e82qh1t,SandersForPresident
Because it's been shown to cost a lot to change labels and forced labeling causes those cheap and safe GMO ingredients to disappear from the market. ,pedantic--asshole,e83ibt5,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, sure.  I'll take the downvotes.

I don't have a college degree; college wasn't right for me.  That's fine, I do OK for myself in IT, where many of us don't have degrees.  If suddenly, college is ""free"" then I worry I'll be replaced by someone who takes advantage of this program, or I'll need to take 4 years off from work to get a degree that won't improve my ability to do my job.  This would likely increase the number of years I would need to work, which doesn't appeal to me.

Also, my wife and I worked hard to pay off her student loans, will we be getting that money back, or are we to be punished for eating ramen for years to pay them off early?

I would much rather have a system in place to control the price of college--expanding state schools, with fixed prices.  One of the big issues with education is the way the costs have exploed from what they were even 10 years ago.  Once we control those prices, I would support low (like sub 1%) loans from the government for education, removing private companies from the student loan equation.  We sure as shit need to reduce the amount of debt people are graduating with, I just don't think writing a bigass check is the way to do it.

I'm sure these opinions won't get much traction here, but that's the great thing about opinions:  everyone gets to have one.",OhFuckNoDude,e81t4ys,SandersForPresident
"I detail my objections elsewhere in the thread.  As far as the tax affecting me, it won't bankrupt me, but yes, it will affect me.",OhFuckNoDude,e8204en,SandersForPresident
"While I agree, we are at least a decade from having super super long range cheap electric cars. You can’t strangle the consumer until the alternatives are without a doubt better. There are millions of people who can barely afford cars, and thousands of small businesses that use trucks. Sure you tax certain vehicles more but you can’t hurt the average Joe. Hell, tax all non 4 cylinder cars that are not going to be used for towing. But don’t punish the poor guy struggling to make ends meet that purchased a 15k Hyundai and just wants to drive to work",carminedg123,e82nyve,SandersForPresident
That's why I look at comprehensive forecasts rather than single polls. And so far those forecasts are giving Dems a very narrow path to the majority.,pablonieve,e8235fm,SandersForPresident
That's why I look at comprehensive forecasts rather than single polls. And so far those forecasts are giving Dems a very narrow path to the majority.,pablonieve,e8235v4,SandersForPresident
"You're right, polls said Trump would lose lol.",AKAManaging,e81k3zv,SandersForPresident
"> SESTA/FOSTA

So here it is:

[Trump signs controversial ‘sex-trafficking’ bill that could hurt the future of the internet](https://www.dailydot.com/debug/what-is-sesta-fosta-bill/)

But I missed this one.

Care to explain it and where Bernie stood?",xxoites,e81nzbz,SandersForPresident
"I feel like this is a bit nit picky, to be honest. I remember reading about how Bernie had been supportive of gay rights way before many politicians even brought it up. Take a look at this article, for example. [https://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2015/sep/29/chuck-todd/nbcs-chuck-todd-bernie-sanders-there-same-sex-marr/](https://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2015/sep/29/chuck-todd/nbcs-chuck-todd-bernie-sanders-there-same-sex-marr/)",lalaohhi,e82xppd,SandersForPresident
"Fuck him then.

He sucks.

I have always been a gay rights activist, but if you elected me to be President you would probably wish you hadn't.

I fart a lot.",xxoites,e827ku7,SandersForPresident
"That is exactly correct.

At the end of the day Bernie Sanders is just people.

He is all about ""just people.""",xxoites,e8274n4,SandersForPresident
"You’re making a lot of assumptions here. If it were that easy to scare people away from certain foods with a label, we wouldn’t have a fast food related obesity epidemic. People KNOW fast food is bad for them but they eat it anyway, despite caloric and other warnings, because it’s cheap. I’d wager that market will always be there. 

But let’s be honest, you’re not in this to protect poor people anyway, are you. ",Complaingeleno,e82tmur,SandersForPresident
that’s it?,paulderev,e83ihym,SandersForPresident
"I don't see free college suddenly doubling the number of people who are going to college. It's not like universities are empty now. It would still be competitive to get in, based on grades. European countries with free college have a rate of attainment of a four-year degree around 40% for adults age 25-34. The u.s. is at 36%. Germany is the largest economy in Europe, they have free education, and they have about 28%.

I see your point about whether we would cancel the existing loans. I'm sure you wouldn't get a refund for what you busted ass to pay. That sucks for you and I. But if I have kids and grandkids, there's a selfish reason to want free college. Not to mention the idea that free college might just be what's best for society. Even with what you propose, there still is not an equal opportunity for everyone to get an education. Rich people don't even have to think about whether to send their kids to college. Working class people still have to go into debt to get an education. I think all kids should have the same opportunity. It shouldn't be based on how much money your parents have.",IsupportLGBT_nohomo,e81u5c0,SandersForPresident
"Those are valid concerns.  I just want to point out that, like climate change, this is about future generations at least as much as us.  What I mean to say is that your children would not have to endure student debt like your wife did. Or perhaps you or they will benefit from an invention, cure, etc. made by someone who otherwise would not have been able to afford college.  Have a good weekend!",allreddittogo,e81ydwn,SandersForPresident
"Maybe I'm naive, but how is this different than the typical ""f- you, got mine"" ideology? ",rental99,e820onf,SandersForPresident
"It doesn’t work like that. You won’t lose anything by othercpeople getting an education. You will gain. People will get better jobs and make better companies, it benefits research and svience too and overall makes society richer that such a petty ting as money is not in the way of education. ",Pirvan,e81xqk7,SandersForPresident
"Expanding on this, you as someone who didnt benefit from the system and chose not to do it shouldnt be forced via tax to subsidize those who take it.

Price controls make sense and I agree but ultimately the beneficiary of the education would be the most able to pay it and would most likely have more disposable income to support it.



",RoastMeAtWork,e81u5zo,SandersForPresident
"so youre insane selfish bullshit is ahead of a system where 18 year olds takes out 80,000 dollars in debt? 

i work in the defense industry. but stopping war is one of my top priorities even if it costs me my job. because its the right thing to do. 

&#x200B;

&#x200B;",revolutionhascome,e82498o,SandersForPresident
[removed],,e81t53e,SandersForPresident
How?,xxoites,e8205xx,SandersForPresident
"No, they said Hilary had a slim chance of winning but Bernie would have crushed him.",xxoites,e81mvda,SandersForPresident
"He voted for it 

And it wasn't like the crime bill vote where he voted for it, got on the floor and said he was reluctant as shit about it, and then (accurately) predicted all the problems it would cause. 

He didn't know what the fallout for this one was going to be, particularly how it makes sex workers significantly less safe",lachumproyale1210,e826qm4,SandersForPresident
"Oh it's entirely nit picky, as I know he's always been against anti-gay legislation and has his record to prove it. However it is one thing I didn't know when first supporting him, and the question was asking for something to prove he isn't perfect. ",brkn613,e82yrgz,SandersForPresident
"Are you seriously suggesting that the  demographic who eats fast food is the same demographic as people who will avoid GMOs based on what a label says?  That was such a ridiculous reach and you didn't even come close to making a coherent point.

Keep your shitty opinions off of my food and do your own research if you want to know how something was made.

Maybe you should educate yourself before making assumptions next time? Google isn't far away...

>Existing evidence from developed countries shows that while mandatory labeling regulations have failed thus far to demonstrate any visible benefit in terms of con- sumer choice and consumer information, **they have contributed to the disappearance of GM food ingredients in targeted products**.... Existing cost studies on labeling requirements in countries with industrialized food sectors suggest **very significant market costs of implementation.**

http://scholar.google.com/scholar_url?url=https://mospace.umsystem.edu/xmlui/bitstream/handle/10355/74/Review%2520of%2520international%2520labeling%2520policies.pdf%3Fsequence%3D1&hl=en&sa=X&scisig=AAGBfm1BbRsVLlvluATLJg0vzM5EFBq_FQ&nossl=1&oi=scholarr",pedantic--asshole,e82xepm,SandersForPresident
"College being free should also have the effect that college becomes harder.  When you have a profit motive in place then colleges have a motive to get more students, which equals more money.  Over time what happens is courses get dumbed down.  

This is in part why liberal arts degrees are viewed as useless, which didn't used to be the case.  What happened is liberal arts curricula have been getting dumbed down over the years - you can't really dumb engineering or science degrees down.  But you can dumb down liberal arts.   

In Europe college is much more rigorous.   

Note:  Liberal Arts degrees aren't actually useless.  You learn plenty of value in them.  It's just that hiring managers have no way of knowing what they're getting.  The degree in itself doesn't indicate anything - although many hiring managers read it is as ""not smart enough for math.""  Of course have fun having someone good at math write something for you that doesn't sound like a 10th grader wrote it.",skeeter1234,e81yubx,SandersForPresident
"Yeah, I see what you're saying, I just disagree.  I think that making it ""free"" will just make it the new HS diploma--functionally required, and just another barrier for those of us without when job hunting. 

My wife and I have chosen not to have kids for a variety of reasons (including environmental) so sadly there's no selfish reason for me.  I'm happy to pay my property taxes that go straight to schools for other people's kids, I just don't think I want to take it to the next level.  I think I would be happier with money being spent on better high school education(especially vocational skills/retraining for workers displaced by automation), rather than covering the cost of some of the...let's say less practical...degrees available.",OhFuckNoDude,e81uggu,SandersForPresident
Oh for sure.  That's why I have no issues paying my property taxes to fund schools for other people's kids (no kids here).  I'm just not sure about taking it to the next level.,OhFuckNoDude,e81ymem,SandersForPresident
"Well, for one, I didn't ""get mine"" as I have no degree but had to pay off my wife's student loans.  For another, I'm not trying to screw anyone out of anything--I believe reading my post will show that I do support price controls on both education costs and student loan interest. 

I believe for it to be ""fuck you; got mine"" I would need to be suggesting removing a program after I used it successfully.",OhFuckNoDude,e8213lz,SandersForPresident
"It's more of a ""nobody is helping me out, so why should anybody else get help"" mentality. I see it all the time, usually more prevalent in conservatives",KTH3000,e822x77,SandersForPresident
"Hi `auto-xkcd37`. Thank you for participating in /r/SandersForPresident. However, [your submission](https://old.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/9pepju/-/e81t53e/) did not meet the requirements of the [community guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) and was therefore removed for the following reason(s): 

----

This is being removed because all submissions should relate to progressive policies which Bernie Sanders has regularly promoted and discussed or progressive candidates endorsed by Bernie Sanders, Our Revolution, Justice Democrats, National Nurses United or Brand New Congress. Submissions which do not provide enough context, content, or direction for discussion may be removed. Consider creating a self-post with context and links to explain the relevancy to Bernie and his movement. Memes, image macros, screenshots should be high quality or may be removed at moderator discretion. Unreliable news sources will be filtered by automoderator. (Rule 3).

Please refrain from further posts of this nature and read the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/sandersforpresident/wiki/rules) before posting a similar thread.

***If you want to dispute this removal, [message the moderators at this link](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FSandersForPresident). Individual moderators are unlikely to respond to any replies to this comment.***",WhiskeyInferno,e81tf3z,SandersForPresident
"Perhaps I'm not understanding.  You're asking if a tax on oranges will cost me money when I buy oranges, right?  Except instead of oranges, it's stock.",OhFuckNoDude,e8208xj,SandersForPresident
"https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/sam-wang-princeton-election-consortium-poll-hillary-clinton-donald-trump-victory-a7399671.html

I'm slightly confused.

I'm currently Googling the polls from that election, and the vast, vast majority of show Trump losing to Hillary. Not only that, you just agreed with me that the polls showed Hillary winning. You're agreeing with me that the polls 1) Don't tell the whole story, and 2) Polls, generally, showed Hillary would win and Trump would lose. What exactly are you saying ""no"" to?",AKAManaging,e82cq55,SandersForPresident
"Pardon me, but I don't know shit about this.

Could you you please explain this to me?",xxoites,e827xyo,SandersForPresident
"Ah, I understand your point. Wasn't trying to say you were being dishonest or anything, I just remember reading about it earlier and wanted to share. To be honest, I have seen a lot of criticism of Bernie and his record lately from people that completely misunderstand either the facts of the matter, the context of a vote, etc. That's definitely not you. I'm curious as to your thoughts on him possibly running in 2020?",lalaohhi,e8342dc,SandersForPresident
"> Are you seriously suggesting that the  demographic who eats fast food is the same demographic as people who will avoid GMOs based on what a label says? 

Literally not at all. Try reading before you come out guns blazing bud. ",Complaingeleno,e83ln80,SandersForPresident
I beg to differ. I got a mechanical engineering degree and graduated with people who were embarrassingly ignorant of basic concepts. They were able to mask many deficiencies and graduate anyway. It's definitely possible to dumb down STEM degrees.,IsupportLGBT_nohomo,e82hmlr,SandersForPresident
"Well, we agree on improving the rest of the schools, too. ",IsupportLGBT_nohomo,e81uo1h,SandersForPresident
">Yeah, I see what you're saying, I just disagree. I think that making it ""free"" will just make it the new HS diploma--functionally required, and just another barrier for those of us without when job hunting.   

You are missing a key component here.  Making college free will actually make college *much* harder, because colleges won't have an economic incentive to accept as many people as they can.  

If college became free the days of it being four years to get drunk and read cliff notes will be the first thing to go.    

There will be fewer people in college.",skeeter1234,e81ywy8,SandersForPresident
">Yeah, I see what you're saying, I just disagree. I think that making it ""free"" will just make it the new HS diploma--functionally required, and just another barrier for those of us without when job hunting.

Thats what it is already. Its a class barrier.",WarlordZsinj,e82w5ey,SandersForPresident
Ok. Fair enough. 👍,rental99,e82g6xc,SandersForPresident
"It is on a transaction of a stock and it is minuscule.

What you are saying to me is you don't like taxes which means you don't like roads, police or fire fighters.

You don't like libraries or schools. You don't like people who look out for our health.

So what is it that you like, exactly?",xxoites,e820hff,SandersForPresident
"[General Election: Trump vs. Sanders](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2016/president/us/general_election_trump_vs_sanders-5565.html)

[General Election: Trump vs. Clinton](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2016/president/us/general_election_trump_vs_clinton-5491.html)",xxoites,e839wrv,SandersForPresident
It essentially forced sites like Backpage to shut down their postings for escorts. The bill treats every sex worker as a victim of human trafficking and in doing so makes legitimate (I know still illegal but I mean sex workers choosing sex work of their own volition) work much harder. It makes it more dangerous by making it harder for workers to screen their prospective clients and communicate between each other for dangerous ones. ,SpaceChimera,e82alva,SandersForPresident
https://www.google.com/amp/s/m.huffpost.com/us/entry/us_5ad0d7d0e4b0edca2cb964d9/amp,lachumproyale1210,e8287jz,SandersForPresident
"Really I hope someone gives him a goddamn break. But yeah, if he ran ill support him and if he wins nomination I'll vote for him. ",brkn613,e835b8g,SandersForPresident
You can go away now. Consider yourself educated. You're welcome. ,pedantic--asshole,e83u8za,SandersForPresident
I'm sure we agree on like 99% of issues.  It's just human nature to find the little grains of sand that don't line up.,OhFuckNoDude,e81uvet,SandersForPresident
"Yes, I've noticed how no high school students drink or read cliff notes.

It seems to me that the opposite would happen--the high performing students are already going to college using scholarships. This would allow students without the academics for scholarships to go as well--this could certainly be a good thing (lord knows I didn't get any scholarships) but I don't see any evidence that the quality of the average college graduate would increase.",OhFuckNoDude,e81z6pg,SandersForPresident
"That's quite the straw man you've built there.  I think there's a pretty big jump between ""I don't want a tax on stock transactions,"" and ""ALL TAXES ARE BAD RAWR!""  

My points were more around the effects on the current workforce from the ""free"" college, less around the methods to fund it.",OhFuckNoDude,e820mpl,SandersForPresident
"My original point was ""Polls said Trump would lose."", agreeing with the parent comment that polls don't tell the whole story. You said that was wrong, implying a disagreement with the parent comment, and then proceeded to say the same thing that I said, except you said Hillary had ""a slim chance"" at winning, which is still Trump losing.

I give you proof to my original claim. You proof to my original claim as well. Agreeing with me that I was right.

Lol, what the fuck are you disagreeing about? Are you just arguing for the sake of arguing? This was a giant waste of time, you could have just said ""this"" or ""agreed"" and accomplished the same exact thing, without all this bullshit lol.",AKAManaging,e84ssfk,SandersForPresident
"Not just backpage, also reddit.  /r/prostitution was banned about that time",m0nk_3y_gw,e82v6b9,SandersForPresident
">Yes, I've noticed how no high school students drink or read cliff notes.   

Have you also noticed that High School is mandatory?     

> This would allow students without the academics for scholarships to go as well.  

Not if you look at countries in Europe where college is free.  In HS if your grades aren't up to snuff you do not get in to college. In fact, they even weed you out of normal HS.  Once you do get in to college it is unforgiving - you fuck up you're done.  No redos.  

>but I don't see any evidence that the quality of the average college graduate would increase.   

It's weird that you didn't even stop to consider what I said.  I explained to you the effect that adding profit to the system has, and you didn't even stop to think about it.  

You know what?  I take it back.  If college does become free you do have something to worry about, because in college people get taught ""critical thinking skills,"" which simply means that they stop and actively challenge their assumptions.  They also develop ""listening skills,"" which simply means they are encourage to listen to other's views and actually consider them, not just automatically dismiss them.  If I were a hiring manager I would be very hesitant to hire someone with no college degree due to their inability to think.",skeeter1234,e81zfcy,SandersForPresident
"I think you point is that you don't want people to be educated,. The tax is on the very rich and we just can't have that, now can we?",xxoites,e820sar,SandersForPresident
To be honest I didn't know reddit had one although I'm not surprised. But yeah earnestly forcing websites to be responsible for things posted to their sites particularly when it comes to sex work,SpaceChimera,e832s8i,SandersForPresident
"Now see, I avoided resorting to personal attacks or insults, but it's clear you're not interested in having a civil conversation  Let's leave it at agree to disagree, and move on with our days.",OhFuckNoDude,e81zin2,SandersForPresident
"Wow.  Yes.  You got me.  That's exactly my point!  I do hate education, and all taxation is theft, unless it's of the poor!

Recognize that people can disagree without being enemies.",OhFuckNoDude,e820z8l,SandersForPresident
[Overflows](https://twitter.com/arirabinhavt/status/1053456311797645313?s=21),gideonvwainwright,e84164a,SandersForPresident
"[Aaron C. Davis:](https://twitter.com/byaaroncdavis/status/1053629731961106432)

* As Saudi government pins Khashoggi’s death on underlings, WashPost obtains passport travel records showing five were in Crown Prince’s security entourage. They traveled to the U.S. repeatedly in recent years ahead of MBS.",Chartis,e84fsxn,SandersForPresident
[We Sued Brian Kemp This Morning](https://www.gregpalast.com/we-sued-brian-kemp-this-morning/),Chartis,e82xo93,SandersForPresident
"10% of voters would make a huge fucking difference, I'm glad he's being sued ",SatanicOnion,e834oui,SandersForPresident
"Go get the slime ball. It shouldn't be about party sides, it should be about the people. United we stand, divided we fall. No one group is dividing us more than the Republicans, there is good and bad everywhere though, but their agenda will not make America great again. Either unite or fall. There is no middle ground. If we don't all rise up together then it won't be long before it all falls down. We are the foundation, but it's being chipped away day after day.",Devilman6979,e832l4a,SandersForPresident
Bernie is the undisputed Peoples' Champ because he seems like the only public servant that actually cares about the corruption and injustice faced by regular people.,BERNthisMuthaDown,e82zzdk,SandersForPresident
There you have it folks. Trump is not the limited government conservative you were tricked into thinking he was! Pissing away tax dollars like it’s his job.,outer_fucking_space,e832sd7,SandersForPresident
">This is a disgrace. The United States already imprisons more people than any country in the world and now because of the Trump administration's cruel policy of imprisoning immigrant children our prisons are reaching capacity. Enough is enough. We need comprehensive criminal justice reform and immigration reform. We should be investing in our people, rather than investing in more and more jails.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1973959342659060)",Chartis,e82ukh1,SandersForPresident
"More funding then.

",kimjongmoonss,e831tk9,SandersForPresident
"Bernie has said we should focus on 2018 right now, and rightly so. ",railjockey,e845hit,SandersForPresident
" >   Cancer is costly, emotionally and socially. But it's especially pricey in terms of money. The stress of being unable to pay for treatment doesn't help your immune system while going through chemotherapy or radiation. It's impossible to relieve yourself of tension when your medical costs are bankrupting you and your family.

 >  This is more common than you might imagine. A new study, published this month in The American Journal of Medicine, discovered that 42 percent of patients deplete their life savings during the first two years of treatment. There's good reason the term ""financial toxicity"" is in the name of this report.

> * 62 percent of cancer patients report being in debt due to their treatment.
> * 55 percent accrue at least $10,000 in debt, while 3 percent file for bankruptcy.
> * Cancer costs exceed $80 billion in America each year.

> Of the 9.5 million cancer diagnoses studied between 2000–2012, researchers discovered that 42.4 percent of patients (median age 68.6±9.4 years) spent all of their money, averaging $92,098. This follows disturbing news from earlier this year that 40 percent of Americans can't afford to pay $400 in case of an emergency. The math is not adding up.

",nphased,e83dyib,SandersForPresident
So repulsively wrong that people who get sick can go bankrupt so easily.,Ayatollah_Bahloni,e83gn05,SandersForPresident
"average can be very misleading. If you average my wealth with Bill Gates, you would get a very high number very deviated from my wealth. It is not bell curve in wealth distribution.",GraceWan1973,e83usgk,SandersForPresident
"^[selected ^highlights:]  

>...play a monumental role in the future of this country. My Republicans colleagues want people not to vote.  

>each and every one of you goes out and brings out 2 other friends or family members... that's what ya got to do...  

>brave people throughout our history have fought and died to defend American democracy. We are not going to turn our backs on those heroes & heroines. The essence of democracy is citizen participation...  

>* somebody works 40 hours a week they should not live in poverty  
>* equal pay for equal work  
>* make public colleges & universities tuition free  
>* lower student debt
>* rebuild our crumbling infrastructure with well paid union labor  
>* health care is a right... we are going to lower the cost of health care for the American people & the business community through Medicare For All...   

---  

>This cowardly President:  

>* proposed a trillion dollar cut over 10 years to Medicaid
>* called for a $500 billion dollar cut to Medicare  
>* called for a $72 billion dollar cut to Social Security  
>* is proposing massive cuts to nutrition programs for pregnant women & for the children of this country  
>* tears little children at the border from the arms of their mothers  
>* bows down to Putin 'Yes Mr. Putin, I believe you'  
>* is not such a tough guy when he has to deal with his billionaire friends in Saudi Arabia who just tortured & murdered a courageous journalist  
>* gave tax breaks to the rich  
>* tried to throw 32 million people off of the health insurance that they have  
>* treated minorities in a shameful manner  

>For hundreds of year what we have seen are brave & courageous people standing up and saying NO! We are going to:

>* oppose slavery  
>* discrimination  
>* not allow women to be seen as 2^nd class citizens  
>* not be prejudice against people in the gay community   
>* not going to be religious bigots  

>For years & years we have been winning that struggle for democracy, becoming a less discriminatory society... we are going forwards!  

>In this great country of ours, in the United States of America, we are not going to:  

>* have more income & wealth inequality than any other country
>* tolerate discrimination  
>* not guarantee health care to all people  

>This is a great nation! We are proud of this nation!  

>Okay kid, all yours.

-Bernie Sanders, Oct 19^th '18
",Chartis,e82nb92,SandersForPresident
"Indiana 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://indianavoters.in.gov/PublicSite/Public/FT1/PublicLookupMain.aspx?Link=Polling): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e82zvtf,SandersForPresident
"There are many flaws in this logic. #1 being that based on the education levels of many senators and representatives, they are actually paid less than professors, lawyers, and business people with the same levels of education. 

I would argue lowering the salary of representatives would either decrease the quality of candidates or encourage even more payment to active representatives from special interest groups, resulting in even more laws passed that are influenced by big banks, pharma, the oil industry, and others. 

Out of all the things to be worried about, congressional salary should not be one of them.  ",206sikma,e82ezep,SandersForPresident
Lobbyists actually send money to congressmen regardless of if they support the bills they are supposed to. Obviously those who comply get more but even Bernie gets sent money from big pharmaceutical companies (not that it changes how he legislates ofc).,CakeDayTurnsMeOn,e82i29q,SandersForPresident
"The correct answer is to regulate campaign contributions better. We don't have to care about congressional salaries when their only path to reelection is

* Doing a good job that their constituents approve of

and

* Spending an amount of publicly allocated funding for campaign costs, equal to the amount that others are allotted

The donor class is the only class with real representation. They have to get pushed to the margins.",snorbflock,e82v9nv,SandersForPresident
"They should all be paid the minimum wage and forced to buy health insurance like the rest of us.  Also, their travel should be paid by them personally, like we all have to do.  See how fucking fast medicare for all, affordable housing and a living wage come to life.",phurbain,e82xgt2,SandersForPresident
"Good idea, but I would prefer pegging it to a factor of the minimum wage for the extra policy incentives that creates. Say $15/hr x 40 hrs/week x 50 weeks/year x 3 multiplier = $90,000.",cymbal_king,e82ulzx,SandersForPresident
"It would breed more corruption than currently, wtf are you all smoking. If they are corrupt get rid of them. Those jobs should go to people who have our best interests at heart not the corporations, and it shouldn't be glamorous. Do you realize we pay for politicians to have the best health care, and they get deals on housing all the time. It's expensive to poor, but they wouldn't know because they think you can make a 100k a year on minimum wage.",Devilman6979,e831lsh,SandersForPresident
Let’s just focus on trying to get term limits. ,-DementedAvenger-,e82f67u,SandersForPresident
I also think they should live in government housing.,Wowza-yowza,e82gipv,SandersForPresident
"Exactly. Why should those lazy, no count pieces of shit have gold plated health care while trying to take it away from everyone else.",IfIKnewThen,e82etmg,SandersForPresident
"Many public jobs with the equivalent level of education of their private counterparts make less money, but yeah it probably would breed corruption.",cholas2,e82fnmt,SandersForPresident
"This so much, it would just encourage them to seek dark money even more than they currently do. No reason to underpay them.",Zilreth,e82i4o6,SandersForPresident
"I'd say the #2 flaw would be the possibility of making it so that only the rich can afford to be representatives. If the pay is low enough, only those who have enough money saved up that they can live on their own wealth would be able to take the job.",bsievers,e82widx,SandersForPresident
"I agree, that is the answer. Many would have voted no on Kavanaugh if they were not facing reelection.",Wowza-yowza,e82gm47,SandersForPresident
That's an extremely tough task but we need them. Along with finance reform. ,rws723,e82l1k3,SandersForPresident
Why would this be down voted?,Fat_Maestro,e8383hm,SandersForPresident
"Yes, and there are a lot of benefits to public jobs, like vacation and pension. I guess what I'm saying is ~$200k is what the public compensation should be, but lowering to ~$60k would be significantly less than the public vs. private compensation ratio of other roles. ",206sikma,e82fzo9,SandersForPresident
That’s an argument to pay them more not to pay congress less,gilablue,e82s965,SandersForPresident
"Apparently because people think if it doesn't pay enough, we'll only get shitty people. I think we've proven that high pay does not equal quality. We need term limits (1 term) public financing of elections and yes, pay tied to the real world. You should serve because you want to SERVE, not so you can get rich ",IfIKnewThen,e83bmhz,SandersForPresident
Time for a carbon tax.,,e83ouo1,SandersForPresident
Here's hoping. ,Espry0n,e83k7x2,SandersForPresident
">Donald Trump, who has a very difficult time telling the truth about anything, is lying about Republicans' intentions to defend protections for people with pre-existing conditions. He is literally working alongside 20 Republican attorneys general to end those protections. We cannot go back to the days when people could be denied insurance due to a pre-existing condition. We will fight any Republican efforts to end these protections.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157393694527908)",Chartis,e82hbnj,SandersForPresident
"[@BBKogan:](https://twitter.com/BBKogan/status/1053122593388220417) 

* The GOP are clearly & obviously lying. They are, right now, arguing in court that the ACA protections for people w/ pre-existing conditions are unconstitutional. And 91% of House Rs & 94% of Senate Rs voted to get rid of protections for people w/ pre-existing conditions.",Chartis,e82hp9n,SandersForPresident
"Indiana 2018 Election 

[General Election](https://indianavoters.in.gov/PublicSite/Public/FT1/PublicLookupMain.aspx?Link=Polling): November 6, 2018 

",election_info_bot,e82zw1h,SandersForPresident
">Mr. Trump: You are threatening not only this generation, but you're threatening the lives of our children and grandchildren. We will fight you every step of the way on your refusal to address climate change, and so will the American people.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/senatorsanders/posts/10157393706727908)",Chartis,e82ufw9,SandersForPresident
">Not only is Trump literally working alongside 20 Republican attorneys general to end protections for people with preexisting conditions. He's lying about trying to defend those protections.

>No one can estimate how many thousands of those people will die if he and his Republican friends are successful. That is why we have got to show up to the polls and vote Republicans out of Congress on November 6th. We will protect people's health care, not destroy it.  

-[Bernie](https://www.facebook.com/berniesanders/posts/1974125282642466)   ",Chartis,e836s7o,SandersForPresident
